Best Teeth Whitening Strips of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessPersonal Care Dental Care
The Best Teeth Whitening Strips in 2025. Plus, Dentist Tips for Long-Lasting Results
Skip the cost of professional whitening with these top-notch at-home strips we tested.
Our Experts
Written by
Amanda Capritto
Written by
Caroline Igo
Written by
Anna Gragert
Article updated on June 20, 2025 at 3:53 AM PDT
Amanda Capritto
See full bio
Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep Caroline Igo (she/her/hers) was a wellness editor at CNET and holds Sleep Science Coach and Stress Management certificates from the Spencer Institute. She received her bachelor's degree in creative writing from Miami University and continues to further her craft in her free time. Before joining CNET, Caroline wrote for past CNN anchor, Daryn Kagan. Expertise Sleep | Mattress Accessories | Vitamins and Supplements | Nutrition | Personal care Credentials Carl R. Greer/Andrew D. Hepburn Award for Best Nonfiction Essay (Miami University, 2020)
See full bio
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II Anna Gragert (she/her/hers) was previously the lifestyle editor at HelloGiggles, deputy editor at So Yummy and senior lifestyle editor at Hunker. Over the past 10+ years, Anna has also written for the L.A. Times, Elle, Bust Magazine, Dazed, Apartment Therapy, Well+Good and more, focusing on all things lifestyle, health and wellness. Expertise Mental health, Personal care, Nutrition, Sleep
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Fit
Make sure the white strips fit snug on your teeth and don't touch the gums.
Coverage
Make sure the teeth whitening strips cover the majority of your teeth.
Ease of use
Whitening strips should be easy to apply.
Sensations
Those with sensitive teeth should look out for products without hydrogen peroxide.
Length of wear
Decide what length of time you're comfortable wearing white strips. Sensitive teeth should avoid prolonged wear.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If you're looking at professional teeth whitening for your dental care, you might know it's an expensive service. It can cost anywhere from $300 to $1,000. There's no surprise that many people turn to over-the-counter strips, kits and toothpaste to brighten their smiles. "Think of whitening strips as tiny chemistry labs for your teeth," says Dr. Karen Man, dentist and chief dental officer of SmileGrove Dental. "They’re coated with hydrogen peroxide or carbamide peroxide, which are fancy names for bleaching agents that break apart stain molecules." To see which ones actually work, we tested a variety of products to find the best teeth whitening strips based on fit, active ingredients, ease of use, wear time and strip count. Our Picks
Best overall whitening strips Crest 3D Whitestrips Professional Effects
Jump to details
$45 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best dissolving whitening strips Moon Dissolving Whitening Strips
Jump to details
$40 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best whitening strips for sensitive teeth Lumineux Oral Essentials Whitening Strips
Jump to details
$45 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best affordable whitening strips Zimba Teeth Whitening Strips
Jump to details
$19 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
The Best Teeth Whitening Strips in 2025. Plus, Dentist Tips for Long-Lasting Results
What to consider
Best teeth whitening strips of 2025
Best teeth whitening strips of 2025 compared
How we tested the best teeth whitening strips
Factors to consider when choosing teeth whitening strips
How do teeth whitening strips work?
Are teeth whitening strips safe?
Professional teeth whitening vs. at-home strips
Can people with sensitive teeth use whitening strips?
Teeth whitening strip tips from dentists
Best teeth whitening strip FAQs
What are the most effective teeth whitening strips?
Do dentists recommend whitening strips?
Should I brush before using teeth whitening strips?
Can whitening strips damage my enamel?
How long do whitening results last?
Are whitening strips safe for veneers?
What is the best teeth whitening strip overall?
AmazonCrest 3D Whitestrips are our pick as the best teeth whitening strips overall because our tests determined that they had the best results with the most effective active ingredients. If you have surface stains from years of tea, coffee and wine consumption, the whitening agent in Crest 3D Whitestrips can effectively whiten teeth by as much as 23 levels.But health comes before vanity, so check with your dentist first -- especially if you have a history of enamel erosion or need dental work such as filling a cavity. You should also take precautions when using whitening strips if you have crowns, veneers or fillings, as whitening products may affect these differently.Best teeth whitening strips of 2025
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best overall whitening strips
Crest 3D Whitestrips Professional Effects
Pros
Up to 23 levels of whiter teeth in about 24 days (the most on this list)
Remove up to 15 years of stains
Active ingredient is 10% hydrogen peroxide
Cons
You might find the coverage to be less than you want
Most expensive on this list at $45
Why we like it: Crest 3D Whitestrips are truly a classic. They're easy to find and easy to use and I've bought them many times. Each Crest 3D Whitestrips Professional Effects box contains 48 strips for 24 treatments. Wear one strip a day for 30 minutes and Crest claims that you can remove up to 14 years of stains by the end of your last treatment.  Who is it best for: These whitening strips are best for someone who wants up to 23 levels of whiter teeth in about 24 days using the active ingredient hydrogen peroxide. Who should not get it: One thing to keep in mind is that the coverage is a little less than other brands on this list. I found that it was OK, I just wished the strips would reach over my canines more. They are also the most expensive at $45. Despite that, Crest 3D is still my No. 1 on this list because they're effective time and time again.  ... Show more
Get it now
$45 at Amazon
$42 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Price
$$Number of strips/treatments
44 strips/22 treatmentsActive ingredients
Hydrogen peroxide, 10%Cruelty-free
NoResults in
Between 3 and 20 daysLevel of whitening
About 23Usage directions
Once a day for 45 minutes for 20 days.ADA Seal of Acceptance
No
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best dissolving whitening strips
Moon Dissolving Whitening Strips
Pros
Dissolves within 15 minutes, so no extra waste
Vegan and cruelty-free
A refreshing mint flavor
Cons
On the expensive side at $40
Must avoid eating and drinking for 30 minutes after application
Why we like it: If you don’t like the feeling of whitening strips sitting on your teeth for up to 30 minutes, you can try dissolving strips, instead. Moon Dissolving Whitening Strips are applied just like any other strips but after 15 minutes, they dissolve. There’s no unnecessary waste or mess and no need to rinse. The strips are also peppermint flavored.Who is it best for: Moon states that in two weeks or less, you can whiten your teeth up to seven shades lighter. In addition to being vegan and cruelty-free, these dissolving whitening strips are free of SLS/SLES (which can irritate skin), triclosan, parabens and artificial flavors.Who should not get it: These are the third most expensive whitening strips on this list at $40, so if that's not in your budget, you may want to find a more affordable product or one that's on sale.
... Show more
Get it now
$40 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Price
$$Number of strips/treatments
56 strips/28 treatmentsActive ingredient
Hydrogen peroxideCruelty-free
YesResults in
14 days or lessLevel of whitening
Up to 7 shadesUsage directions
Allow about 15 minutes for the strip to dissolve. Intended for use in the morning and night for 2 weeks.ADA Seal of Acceptance
No
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best whitening strips for sensitive teeth
Lumineux Oral Essentials Whitening Strips
Pros
Natural alternative -- coconut oil is the active ingredient
Contains 21 treatments in one box
Up to 14 shades lighter in a maximum of three weeks
Cons
On the pricey side at $45
May slip around
Why we like it: Anyone who has sensitive teeth should check out Lumineux Oral Essentials. Lumineux products don't include hydrogen peroxide and instead use a combination of Dead Sea salt, essential oils, coconut oil and aloe vera. The fit and coverage were great, although they did slip around a bit. Lumineux products are also cruelty-free.Who is it best for: I tested these for three consecutive days, so I can't speak to the long-term efficacy compared with other brands. But Lumineux did conduct a clinical trial that concluded Crest 3D Whitestrips were no more effective than Lumineux natural whitening strips. (The study was funded in part by Lumineux, however.) Still, I think they're worth a shot for people with sensitive teeth and gums.Who should not get it: Like the Crest 3D Whitestrips Professional Effects, these whitening strips are also $45, which is on the more expensive side.
... Show more
Get it now
$45 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Price
$$Number of strips/treatments
42 strips/21 treatmentsActive ingredient
Coconut oilCruetly-free
YesResults in
3 weeks or lessLevel of whitening
Up to 14 shadesUsage directions
Apply for 30 minutes. Use strips 7 days in a row, then 1-2 times a week thereafter.ADA Seal of Acceptance
No
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best affordable whitening strips
Zimba Teeth Whitening Strips
Pros
10 flavors to choose from including mint, coconut, strawberry and wintergreen
Nonslip design
Results in two weeks or less
Cons
The brand doesn’t say how many levels of whitening is possible&nbsp;
May not be suitable for sensitive teeth
Has only 14 treatments, the lowest on this list
Why we like it: Zimba whitening strips are affordable and effective at lightening the shade of your teeth. One pack comes with 28 strips for results in 14 days or less. Wear one strip for 30 minutes a day.Who is it best for: This cruelty-free brand has found a way to combat one of the negatives of whitening strips -- the strong, bitter taste. Zimba offers 10 flavors to choose from, including watermelon and spearmint. On top of that, the strips have a nonslip design that grip your teeth during each treatment.Who should not get it: The most affordable on this list ($25), this product comes with the fewest treatments: 28 strips for 14 treatments. If you're looking to get the most treatments out of your purchase, the Moon Dissolving Whitening Strips offer the highest number, 28 treatments.  ... Show more
Get it now
$19 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Price
$Number of strips/treatments
28 strips/14 treatmentsActive ingredient
Hydrogen peroxideCruelty-free
YesResults in
14 days or lessLevel of whitening
Not listedUsage directions
Apply the strips to your teeth for 30 minutes to 1 hour for visible whitening results over 14 days.ADA Seal of Acceptance
No
Add to compareBest teeth whitening strips of 2025 compared
Teeth Whitening Strips Results in...Level of whiteningNumber of strips/treatmentsActive ingredientsUsage instructionsADA Seal of AcceptancePriceCrest 3D Whitestrips Professional Effects Between 3 and 20 days23 shades44 strips/22 treatmentsHydrogen peroxide, 10%Once a day for 45 minutes for 20 days.No$45Moon Dissolving Whitening Strips 14 days or less7 shades56 strips/28 treatmentsHydrogen peroxideAllow about 15 minutes for the strip to dissolve. Intended for use in the morning and night for 2 weeks.No$40Lumineux Oral Essentials Whitening Strips 3 weeks or less14 shades42 strips/21 treatmentsCoconut oilApply for 30 minutes. Use strips 7 days in a row, then 1-2 times a week thereafter.No$45Zimba Teeth Whitening Strips 14 days or lessNot listed28 strips/14 treatmentsHydrogen peroxideApply the strips to your teeth for 30 minutes to 1 hour for visible whitening results over 14 days.No$25
How we tested the best teeth whitening strips
I began this list of teeth whitening strips with teeth whitening products that could potentially make it into this roundup, looking at factors like brand reputation, buyer reviews on Amazon and full reviews by other writers. After narrowing the lengthy list of teeth whitening strips, I started testing.It would be impossible to test the long-term efficacy of all of these whitening strips without annihilating my enamel and gum tissue or distinguishing results with back-to-back testing on my own teeth, so I judged each product against a few criteria that I think will help you make a buying decision. Factors to consider when choosing teeth whitening strips
Before buying your next box of teeth whitening strips, consider these factors.FitYou want your strips to fully cover your teeth and not go up over your gums, which can cause gum sensitivity. Additionally, their fit should be snug. While you go about your day waiting for it to be time to take the strips off, they should not slip and slide inside your mouth.CoverageWhile whitening your molars is not necessary (since you hardly see them anyway), your teeth whitening strips should still cover a good percentage of your teeth. After you apply the strip, smile and look in the mirror. Is the strip touching all of the teeth you can see in your normal smile? If not, time to try another brand.Ease of useWhitening strips should be simple. Apply the product, wait a specified amount of time and take the strips off. If the teeth whitening strips require other steps or seem difficult to use, try another brand.SensationsIf you have sensitive teeth or gums, look for products that will give you the least amount of sensitivity. Oftentimes, hydrogen peroxide is too strong for sensitive teeth, so try coconut oil, instead. Don’t suffer through a product if it burns your gums or hurts your teeth.Length of wearMost strips require at least 30 minutes of wear in order to get the best results. If you have sensitive teeth or not enough time for teeth whitening strips, look for products that don’t require much wear. How do teeth whitening strips work?
"Over-the-counter teeth whitening strips contain low to moderate concentration of hydrogen peroxide or carbamide peroxide gel. The peroxide penetrates the tooth enamel to break down stain molecules," explains Sandip Sachar, DDS, who has been practicing general and cosmetic dentistry in Midtown Manhattan, NYC, for over 20 years. "Whitening strips often include advanced adhesives that keep the strip and peroxide in close contact with the teeth. They can gently lighten the tooth color after repeated applications. Typically, it takes 5-14 daily applications to achieve satisfactory results."After about a week of daily use, according to Man, most people start seeing their teeth get noticeably whiter. Are teeth whitening strips safe?
"Generally, yes, but they’re not right for everyone," answers Man. "The FDA regulates these products, and many have the American Dental Association’s seal of approval. However, people with certain dental conditions like cavities, gum disease or very sensitive teeth should check with their dentist first. Even healthy teeth can become sensitive during whitening."Man states that problems tend to occur when people are unaware of underlying dental issues or don't follow the product directions. "If you experience persistent pain or sensitivity, stop using them and see your dentist," she advises.According to Sachar, DIY products can be riskier. "These include products that contain chlorine dioxide or sodium chlorite, which can thin enamel and increase the risk of tooth decay," she says. "These are not ADA-approved ‘natural’ or ‘fast-acting’ whitening products, and I do not recommend them as they are not safe." Professional teeth whitening vs. at-home strips
"It’s like comparing a professional car wash to doing it yourself in the driveway," states Man. "Professional whitening uses stronger bleaching agents and gives you dramatic results in just one or two visits. Plus, if something goes wrong, your dentist is right there to fix it. They can also customize the treatment for your specific needs and address any sensitivity issues immediately. Strips are the DIY option that costs way less and lets you whiten while binge-watching Netflix. The downside? It takes longer to see results, and you might end up with some uneven spots if your teeth aren’t perfectly straight.”Sachar provides the following advantages and disadvantages for each type of treatment:Advantages of at-home whitening strips:•
More affordable than professional in-office treatments.•
Convenient and easier to use on your own schedule.•
Gradual whitening allows for subtle changes over time instead of quick one-day whitening.•
Reduced risk of sensitivity.Disadvantages of at-home whitening strips:•
Lower peroxide concentrations mean slower and less dramatic results.•
Strips may not fit perfectly, which can lead to uneven whitening, especially between the teeth or along the gumline.•
Greater chances of improper use resulting in adverse side effects, such as leaving them on too long.Advantages of professional teeth whitening:•
Fast and dramatic results in just one or two visits.•
Custom trays that fit the teeth exactly are sometimes included for continued home whitening or touch-ups.•
Protection for the gums to prevent sensitivity.•
Supervised by a professional, reducing the risk of misuse or complications.•
Professional in-office peroxide concentrations with enhanced activation using LED or laser light can produce a more dramatic and fast result.Disadvantages of professional teeth whitening:•
Significantly higher cost.•
May cause temporary tooth sensitivity in some patients.•
Less convenient, requiring scheduling and attending a dental visit. Can people with sensitive teeth use whitening strips?
"For patients that have more sensitive teeth, I advise them to use whitening strips with a lower peroxide concentration, or that contain desensitizing agents like potassium nitrate or fluoride," advises Sachar. "I recommend patients with sensitive teeth start using toothpaste for sensitive teeth, fluoride toothpaste or fluoride rinse, 1-2 weeks prior to whitening. I advise them also to space out the treatments with longer times between treatments. I advise them to avoid strips with harsh flavorings or containing unnecessary acids that can irritate the teeth and gums. Look for 'gentle' formulas like ‘Crest 3D White Gentle Routine.'"According to Man, you should take a break and call your dentist if "your teeth start feeling like they’re getting electric shocks." Teeth whitening strip tips from dentists
Start with a dental checkup: "I always recommend starting with a dental checkup before any whitening routine," recommends Man. "Your dentist can spot potential issues and help you choose the safest, most effective approach for your specific situation.“Follow directions closely: "Regardless of the product used, technique matters," says Sachar. "I advise patients to brush gently before applying the strips to make sure the teeth are plaque-free and avoid food and drinks that stain teeth for 24-48 hours after whitening. I recommend always following the instructions closely, including never exceeding the recommended frequency or duration."Wait to brush after whitening: "After whitening, always wait at least 30 minutes before brushing to allow enamel to re-harden and reduce the risk of abrasion or sensitivity," advises Sachar. "Brushing too soon can damage the temporarily softened enamel and irritate gums."Note that some discoloration may require in-office treatment: “While whitening strips can be effective for many people, professional whitening often provides more predictable and longer-lasting results," Man states. "Strips work great for everyday stains from food and drinks, but some types of discoloration from medications or other causes may need professional treatment."
Best teeth whitening strip FAQs
What are the most effective teeth whitening strips?
Crest 3D Whitestrips are widely considered the most effective teeth whitening strips due to their Advanced Seal Technology, which keeps them securely in place for better contact with teeth. They use a high concentration of hydrogen peroxide -- the same whitening agent used by dentists -- to remove both surface and deep stains while being enamel-safe.
Show more
Do dentists recommend whitening strips?
According to the American Dental Association, it is recommended to use only over-the-counter bleaching kits with the ADA Seal of Acceptance. These include Crest White Strips.
Show more
Should I brush before using teeth whitening strips?
You can brush before applying teeth whitening strips. Brushing and flossing before doing so will remove plaque and create a cleaner canvas. It's advised to wait 30 minutes after brushing to use whitening strips.
Show more
Are teeth whitening strips OK for your teeth?
If you have healthy teeth and good oral health, using a reputable teeth whitening strip should be fine when used as directed. Teeth whitening products are only meant to be used occasionally and in moderation, and it's always a better idea to speak with your dentist first about finding the best option for you. Additionally, steer clear of teeth whitening strips that contain chlorine dioxide.People who need dental work or have tooth pain should consult with their dentist to find out if teeth whitening is right for them.
Show more
Do whitening strips work on really yellow teeth?
Over-the-counter teeth whitening strips may not be powerful enough for very stained teeth. If you're looking for exceptional results for yellow teeth, consult your dentist.
Show more
What are the negatives of teeth whitening strips?
The negatives of teeth whitening strips include possible tooth and gum sensitivity. If you use teeth whitening strips too often, it may cause temporary enamel dehydration and sensitivity, and some of the results might not be the exact shade you imagine.
Show more
Can whitening strips damage my enamel?
"When used properly, whitening strips do not damage or weaken tooth enamel," says Sachar. "However, excessive use or overlapping treatments without a proper break between them can contribute to temporary enamel dehydration and sensitivity ... Some non-ADA-approved ‘natural’ or ‘fast-acting’ whitening products can contain chlorine dioxide or sodium chlorite, which can thin enamel and increase the risk of tooth decay."
Show more
How long do whitening results last?
"Most people stay happy with their results for about six months to a year, but your habits make a huge difference," explains Man. "If you’re someone who can’t function without coffee or loves a good glass of red wine, your teeth will pick up new stains faster. Smokers see their results fade even quicker. The good news is that touch-up treatments work really well to keep your smile bright.”Sachar adds that proper oral hygiene habits can help you maintain the whitening results longer.
Show more
Are whitening strips safe for veneers?
"Strips won’t hurt your veneers, crowns or fillings, but here’s the catch: they won’t whiten them either," says Man. "Only your natural teeth will get lighter, which can leave you with a patchwork smile where some teeth are bright white and others haven’t budged. If you have a lot of dental work, definitely chat with your dentist before whitening so you don’t end up with mismatched teeth.”Sachar adds, "Repeated or prolonged exposure to peroxide may dull the luster of some composite or resin restorations over time."
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Amanda Capritto
Amanda Capritto
Read full bio
Also written by
Caroline Igo Former Editor, SleepAlso written by
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II
Personal Care Guides
Eye Care
Best Places to Buy Glasses Online
Best Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses
Best Eye Drops
Best Places to Buy Contacts Online
Best Prescription Sunglasses
Best Blue Light Blocking Glasses
Dental Care
Best Electric Toothbrush
Quip Toothbrush Review
Best Invisible Braces
Best Teeth Whitening Strips and Toothpaste
Best Teeth Whitening Kits
Mental Health
Best Mental Health Apps
Best Teas for Stress and Anxiety
Best Fidget Toys for Anxiety
Best Online Therapy
Best Online Couples Therapy
Best Online Psychiatric Services
Betterhelp Online Therapy Review
Cerebral Review
Talkspace Online Therapy Review
Talkspace vs. Betterhelp
Other Personal Care
Best Sunscreen
Best Shower Filter
Best Hand Soap
Best Period Underwear
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.