Advertise with us – WebMD and Medscape
Would you like to switch to the accessible version of this site?
Go to accessible site
Close modal window
Don't need the accessible version of this site?
Hide the accessibility button
Close modal window
Accessibility View
Close toolbar
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
OUR PROPERTIES
OUR AUDIENCES
AD SOLUTIONS
MEDIA KITS
CONSUMER
PROFESSIONAL
DIRECTORIES
POINT OF CARE
CONTACT US
The Most Trusted Content Promoting
Health, Wellness & Patient Care.
Our mission is to improve health outcomes across the scope of healthcare. We are dedicated to sharing the best information and insights that inspire consumers to achieve their health and wellness goals and providing healthcare professionals worldwide the medical education, tools, news, and expert viewpoints they need to deliver the highest level of patient care.
Consumer Media Ad Specs
Professional Media Ad Specs
Our Properties
Our portfolio is anchored by the most-trusted, medically reviewed content available online, which nurtures a bond with our visitors at each step of the healthy journey. We are the guide for over 70 million monthly users working on their health and wellness goals and the resource to inspire better doctor conversations in over 300K physician offices. We are a valuable reference to an active community of physicians who rely on our in-depth medical information.
Consumer
Professional
Directories
Point-of-Care
Consumer
At WebMD, we know that health is more than just a moment: it is a pursuit to live better each day. This requires an editorial approach that helps users make better health choices. Easily understood information and vibrant, dedicated lifestyle channels act as a reference, pharmacist, health coach, personal trainer, and partner to better health & wellness outcomes.
Download Media Kit
Professional
Medscape is the leading online destination for physicians and healthcare professionals worldwide offering the latest medical news and expert perspectives; essential point-of-care drug and disease information; and relevant professional education and CME (DRG 2020 Taking the Pulse data).
Download Media Kit
Directories
As the largest online physician and HCP directory on the internet - we are the resource for in-market patients looking for care. With the ability to research, compare, and book an appointment, our platform, and services powers the patient journey to care.
Download Media Kit
Point-of-Care
We exist throughout the healthcare journey - from the material inside the physician's office to follow-up content on mobile phones. We promote better physician-patient conversations, encourage adherence, and improve health outcomes by engaging patients during their most important health care decision moments.
Download Media Kit
Our Audiences
Our audiences are active, engaged, and purpose-driven, and patients rely on our content to improve treatment outcomes and empower health conversations.
Health Conditions
Wellness & Lifestyle
In-Market Care Seekers
Physicians & HCPs
Health Conditions
For them, their care is a journey. Chronic or acute, our health condition audiences are intimately involved throughout their care. They search for information and ask questions as they are actively seeking out information to learn all they can about the latest treatments, discoveries, and therapies.
0%
of WebMD consumers have researched specific condition information
0%
visited/plan to visit their doctor in the next 30 days.
0%
of cough/cold/flu researchers on WebMD purchased the product that day
Sources: WebMD 2020 Consumer Profile Study, WebMD 2020 Patient Profile Study
Wellness & Lifestyle
This community believes that health is a lifestyle. Better sleep, better fitness, better nutrition is very important to them - but they are not looking for short-term fixes or trends. They want honest, verified wellness content that will help them achieve their long-term goals. They strive for self-improvement - from how to be good, attentive new parents to how to make smart, healthy choices as they age.
0%
have researched wellness/lifestyle information on WebMD
0%
conducted baby food research on WebMD before purchase
0%
of WebMD skincare purchasers said online research motivated them to switch/try a skincare brand
Source: WebMD 2020 Consumer Profile Study
In-Market Care Seekers
Found far down the health journey funnel, our in-market care seekers are wholly involved in their healthcare decisions. They have taken the time to explore, research, and compare their specialists and treatment options, and are now at the stage to convert and looking to book an appointment for care.
0
million MUVs across WebMD/Vitals Directory universe (comScore 2021)
#0
Most trusted medical directory information (2021 WebMD Directories Study)
#0
Most complete medical directory resource (2021 WebMD Directories Study)
Physicians & HCPs
From the moment they graduate medical school and throughout their career, we are their partners in improving patient outcomes. Throughout the flow of their day, across all of their devices, physicians and HCPs rely on our essential information to support their clinical decisions.
0
million physicians globally
0
million engagements worldwide
Source: Medscape Internal Data, 2021
Ad Solutions
The most trusted editorial environment translates into a less intrusive ad experience for visitors and a more efficient marketing opportunity for brands. Leverage our suite of ad products that deliver better engagement and lasting brand benefits.
Consumer
Professional
Consumer Media Ad Specs
Professional Media Ad Specs
Consumer
Consumer Media Ad Specs
WebMD Brand Seeker:
Roadblock your drug monograph page on WebMD to reinforce your brand value proposition to active, lower-funnel treatment researchers as they engage in pertinent Rx information, such as uses, side effects, interactions, etc.
Editorial Alignment Solutions:
A mix of content assets housed within one robust hub deliver deep condition education while condition-focused pages explore important health topics from rare diseases to personalized treatment options.
DNA Brand Studio:
Our expert health content creators natively integrate your brand messaging through custom guided experiences and new video franchises that capture the look and feel of our editorial.
Point-Of-Care QR Posters:
Activate your brand in the physician’s office by aligning with medically reviewed content that spurs better physician-patient conversations and leverages direct calls to action that pull patients to an in-depth digital destination to create a unified editorial alignment opportunity.
Care Finder:
Intercepts patients across WebMD content and gives them a platform to find care at crucial moments –to generate leads and fill the capacity of your hospital or health system.
Professional
Professional Media Ad Specs
Medscape Brand Alert:
Triggered, multi-channel messages engage a hyper-targeted set of physicians who will drive the most impact for your brand, while user-level HCP insights inform robust analytics, channel preferences, and future marketing campaigns optimization efforts.
Condition Article Exclusivity:
Reach physicians with exclusive media ownership of relevant condition content across Medscape to block out the competition and maximize brand awareness.
Editorial Virtual Patient Simulation:
Self-guided simulation experience where physicians make decisions replicating real-world practice and medical training.
Contact Us
Please complete the following information. A member of our sales team will
contact you as soon as possible.
Category*
Apparel
Auto
Baby/Parenting
Beauty/Skincare
Clinical Trials
Diet/Fitness
Feminine Care
Financial
Food/Beverage
Home Care
Hospitals/Health Systems
Insurance
Medical Devices
OTC
Pet
Pharmaceutical
Tech/Electronics
Travel/Spa
Vitamins and Supplements
Other
Target Audience*
Consumers
HCPs
Consumer and HCPs
State*
AK
AL
AR
AZ
CA
CO
CT
DE
FL
GA
HI
IA
ID
IL
IN
KS
KY
LA
MA
MD
ME
MI
MN
MO
MS
MT
NC
ND
NE
NH
NJ
NM
NV
NY
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VA
VT
WA
WV
WI
WY
DC
Are there any specific details you want to share with the sales team to
help expedite your request? (e.g., national or local media, banner ads, sponsorship)
Required fields are denoted with *
Submit
×
Thank you for contacting us about advertising on WebMD.
We have received your inquiry and a member of our sales team will be in contact with
you as soon as possible.
Please keep in mind that any submission to WebMD is subject to our Privacy
Policy and Terms and Conditions, and your submission indicates your acceptance of them.
This online form is for Sales and Advertising related inquiries only. If you want to contact Customer
Service for WebMD, follow the Contact Us link at the bottom of this page.
If you think you may have a medical emergency, dial 911 or contact your doctor immediately.
Facebook
Created with Sketch.
Twitter
Created with Sketch.
Pinterest
Created with Sketch.
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.