Ex-Google Recruiter Shares 4 Ways to Become a Rare End-of-Year Hire
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Careers
I worked as a Google recruiter for almost a decade and now coach job seekers. Here are 4 ways to become a rare end-of-year hire.
As told to
Alyshia Hull
Sarah Goose says generalists will struggle in today's job market
Photo courtesy of Sarah Goose.
2025-09-24T09:07:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Ex-Google recruiter Sarah Goose spent years learning how diverse companies hire.
Goose says that despite widespread layoffs, big companies still hire in the fourth quarter.
She advises her clients to send fewer applications and be more strategic at the end of the year.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with Sarah Goose, a 37-year-old career coach and founder of Goose Gets It, in Fredericksburg, Virginia. It has been edited for length and clarity.
In Q4, people fear that hiring slows down — but that's not always the case. Sure, there are some industries that are less eager to hire than others, but from my experience, there are spaces where hiring can actually take off.Before starting my own career coaching business in 2023, I worked at Google for nine years. While there, I wrote interview questions, built scorecards to evaluate candidates, trained interviewers, and helped decide who got hired.
After learning how companies hire, I started my own career coaching business, Goose Gets It, where I help demystify the hiring process and help people navigate this very challenging job market.Getting hired at a smaller startup company at the end of the year is tough because the business needs to show profitability to its investors. For bigger companies focused on growth, it's often the shortest time to hire, and there's real pressure on managers to fill roles before budgets or head count get stripped away.
Did you get hired using a unique hack, strategy, or tactic? If you're comfortable discussing it with a reporter, please fill out this quick form. Business Insider wants to hear from people who've cracked the job market with a bold or unconventional approach: sending personalized slide decks in place of cover letters, treating your job hunt like a sales cycle, using 5 specific tricks or a step-by-step process, etc. If you've snagged a job semi-recently (last few weeks, months, or years), we'd love to hear how you did it!
But, how do you become one of those end-of-the-year hires? How do you stand out in the last quarter of the year? I advise job seekers to do four things.
1. Get clear on your role and positioningThe first thing you need to do is be really clear on the types of roles you're applying for.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Ask yourself: What is your seniority level? What's your niche? What's your specialty? It's not just about the type of job you want, what you think the market needs, or what you're good at; it's the intersection of those three things, and you need to be really clear on that.2. Niche down and target strategicallyWhen it comes to getting hired, the spray-and-pray method — throwing spaghetti at the wall and seeing what sticks — isn't likely to work. It's having fewer applications and being really strategic and selective in your applications that gets people hired.
People often think, Oh, OK, if I apply to more roles, then I'm going to get more interviews. And if I make myself open to everything, then I'll be more appealing. But here's the thing: if you try to appeal to everyone, then you end up appealing to no one. It may sound counterintuitive, but you have to niche down.From there, have a list of target companies you'd like to work for. Then set up job alerts for these companies so that you know of those roles quickly and can apply early.3. Reach out to where you were previously consideredOne big thing I advise job seekers to do is keep an eye on roles and companies they were considered for earlier in the year. These are jobs they interviewed for and didn't get — they were a near miss. The end of the year is a perfect time to re-engage.
To do this, first, check the company's career page for new openings. Then, reach back out to the recruiter you spoke with initially and say something like: "I'm not sure if this role is in your purview, but I would love to be considered. We last spoke when I interviewed for [X role] in [season], and since then, my skills have evolved. If you're not the right recruiter, I'd appreciate it if you could connect me with the right team."Even if they're not the recruiter, they can then put you in touch with someone who is, and because the company already has data points on you, you're a faster hire.Candidates are often afraid to do this, thinking, "They rejected me, so I shouldn't go back." But that's not the case. A no is not a no forever, just a no for right now.
Often, reaching back out is like a little gift in the recruiter's inbox. Don't just reapply — be proactive, go directly to their inbox, and show them why you're an even better fit this time.4. Be availableOne mistake I see so many job seekers make is that they aren't available. When they start to get callbacks, they think, Oh gosh, I don't want to mess this up. I want to be sure I'm right. I want to talk with my network, etc.You don't have time for that. The candidate pool is so steep and response rates are so high that if you wait a week and a half or two weeks to talk with a recruiter, you've already missed your spot. Other people will be further in the process.
When you get that bite, follow up immediately. Make yourself available, even if you think you're not ready. If they ask, "Do you have time to talk this week?" Say, "I'm available. What time tomorrow works?" or, "I'm happy to hop on a call today."The job market is bad, but companies are still hiringIn the current market, layoffs and downsizing are happening — but in the same breath, companies are still hiring for specialized, high-priority roles.Now is the time to claim your niche and own it. Generalists are struggling, but specialists are in demand. I'm telling my clients to brace for a selective market, but not a dead one.
Recommended video
Job Market
Tips
Google
More
as told to
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account