New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
BreachForums hacking forum admin resentenced to three years in prison
Get 8 courses to kickstart or advance your security career for $30
Microsoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office apps
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityNew Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
By Ionut Ilascu
September 15, 2025
02:01 PM
0
Academic researchers have devised a new variant of Rowhammer attacks that bypass the latest protection mechanisms on DDR5 memory chips from SK Hynix.
A Rowhammer attack works by repeatedly accessing specific rows of memory cells at high-speed read/write operations to cause enough electrical interference to alter the value of the nearby bits from one to zero and vice-versa (bit flipping).
An attacker could potentialluy corrupt data, increase their privileges on the system, execute malicious code, or gain access to sensitive data.
One defense mechanism against Rowhammer attacks is called Target Row Refresh (TRR), which prevents bit flips by issuing an extra refresh command when detecting frequent accesses to a particular row.
Hammering DDR5 for privilege escalation
A team of researchers in the Computer Security Group (COMSEC) at ETH Zurich University in Switzerland and Google created a new DDR5 Rowhammer attack they call Phoenix, which can flip bits in memory chips to enable malicious activity.
The tests were carried out on DDR5 products from Hynix, one of the largest memory chip makers with an estimated 36% of the market, but the security risk may extend to products from other vendors as well.
After reverse-engineering the complex protections that Hynix implemented against Rowhammer and learning how they worked, the researchers discovered that certain refresh intervals were not sampled by the mitigation, which could be exploited.
They also developed a method for Phoenix to track and synchronize with thousands of refresh operations by self-correcting when it detects a missed one.
To evade TRR protections, the Rowhammer patterns in the Phoenix attack cover 128 and 2608 refresh intervals and hammer specific activation slots only at precise moments.
Using their model, the researchers were able to flip bits on all 15 DDR5 memory chips in the test pool and created the first Rowhammer privilege escalation exploit.
During tests, it took them less than two minutes to get a shell with root privileges “on a commodity DDR5 system with default settings.”
Additionally, the researchers also explored the possibility of practical exploitation using the Phoenix attack method to take control of a target system.
When targeting page-table entries (PTEs) to craft an arbitrary memory read/write primitive, they found that all products in the test are vulnerable.
In another test, they targeted RSA-2048 keys of a co-located VM to break SSH authentication and discovered that 73% of the DIMMs are exposed.
In a third evaluation, the researchers found that they could alter the sudo binary to increase their local privileges to root level on 33% of the tested chips.
All tested DDR5 modules are vulnerable to the new Phoenix Rowhammer attacksource: COMSEC ETH Zurich
The table above shows that all memory chips tested are vulnerable to one of the Rowhammer patterns used in the Phoenix attack. The shorter one with 128 refresh intervals is more effective, though, generating more bit flips on average.
Phoenix is currently tracked as CVE-2025-6202 and received a high-severity score. It affects all DIMM RAM modules produced between January 2021 and December 2024.
Although Rowhammer is an industry-wide security problem that cannot be corrected for existing memory modules, users can stop Phoenix attacks by tripling the DRAM refresh interval (tREFI).
However, this kind of stress may cause errors or data corruption and render the system unstable.
A technical paper titled “Phoenix: Rowhammer Attacks on DDR5 with Self-Correcting Synchronization” has been published and will also be presented at the IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy next year.
The researchers also shared a repository with resources to reproduce the Phoenix attack, which includes experiments based on Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) to reverse-engineer TRR implementations, and the code for the proof-of-concept exploits.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
DDR5
DIMM
Hynix
Memory
Phoenix
RAM
Rowhammer
Ionut Ilascu
Ionut Ilascu is a technology writer with a focus on all things cybersecurity. The topics he writes about include malware, vulnerabilities, exploits and security defenses, as well as research and innovation in information security. His work has been published by Bitdefender, Netgear, The Security Ledger and Softpedia.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Sponsor Posts
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT