FedEx offers this number in an early sign that trade uncertainty is easing | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
FedEx offers this number in an early sign that trade uncertainty is easing
FedEx offers this number in an early sign that trade uncertainty is easing
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 19, 2025, 12:11:00 AM
By Claudia Assis
FedEx's stock rallies in extended trading after logistics company reinstates outlook for the full year
Wall Street was eager to parse FedEx earnings for any clues about the broader U.S. economy.
FedEx Corp. late Thursday brought back its fiscal 2026 profit outlook, signaling that at least some uncertainty is in the rearview mirror even as it continues to struggle with tariffs and faces concerns about slower demand for parcel deliveries.
FedEx shares (FDX) rallied 5.5% in the after-hours session. FedEx forecast a revenue growth rate of 4% to 6% for the full year, and adjusted per-share earnings between $17.20 and $19.
The company did not give an updated full-year outlook when it reported earnings in June.
Investors were eager to parse FedEx earnings for any clues about the broader U.S. economy. In June, the logistics company said it expected about $170 million in tariff costs, mainly from the end of the "de minimis" exemptions.
Analysts at BofA Securities recently downgraded their rating on FedEx, as well as United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS), on the negative impact of "de minimis" changes, citing near-term pressure on volumes and costs.
FedEx reported first-quarter adjusted earnings of $3.83 a share on sales of $22.2 billion. Analysts polled by FactSet expected FedEx to report adjusted earnings of $3.61 on sales of $21.6 billion.
FedEx is experiencing success with "strategic initiatives, as we are flexing our network and reducing our cost-to-serve, while further enhancing our value proposition and customer experience," Chief Executive Raj Subramaniam said in a statement.
Operating results improved in the quarter, thanks to strength in U.S. domestic package revenue and cost cuts, the company said. FedEx's Federal Express business also improved during the quarter, due to higher U.S. domestic and international priority-package yields, cost savings and higher U.S. domestic package volume.
Those were offset in part by higher wages and purchased-transportation rates, and the impact of the "evolving global trade environment" on demand for international export packages, the company said.
FedEx Freight saw lower operational results, however, due to lower revenue, higher wages and the hiring of additional salespeople.
FedEx shares have lost nearly 20% this year, contrasting with an advance of around 13% for the S&P 500 index SPX.
-Claudia Assis
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-18-25 2011ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now These 9 undervalued energy stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy These 12 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 19, 2025
A 5-Star Stock to Buy With a Near-5% Yield Undervalued by 23%, this cheap dividend stock is a top pick in its sector.
Travis Miller Sep 18, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility