QURE Stock Price Quote | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Stocks
uniQure NV uniQure NV QURE
Morningstar Rating
Unlock
Stock XNAS
Rating as of Sep 23, 2025
Today’s Gainers
Download PDF
More Actions
Summary
Chart
News
Price vs Fair Value
Sustainability
Trailing Returns
Key Metrics
Financials
Valuation
Dividends
Ownership
Executive
$47.50 +33.84
(247.73%)
View Full Chart
As of Sep 24, 2025, 8:00:07 PM Delayed Price Closed
About Quantitative Ratings
Morningstar Quantitative Ratings for Stocks are generated using an algorithm that compares companies that are
not under analyst coverage to peer companies that do receive analyst-driven ratings. Companies with quantitative
ratings are not formally covered by a Morningstar analyst, but are statistically matched to analyst-rated
companies, allowing our models to calculate a quantitative moat, fair value, and uncertainty rating.
Price vs Fair Value
View History
QURE is trading within a range we consider fairly valued.
Price
$13.66
Sep 23, 2025
Fair Value
$36.99
Sep 20, 2025
Uncertainty
Very High
1-Star Price $49.315-Star Price $2.31Economic Moat JdrCapital Allocation —
News
View All
Here's why biotech UniQure's stock just tripled, and brought ClearPoint shares up with it
MarketWatch Sep 24, 2025, 8:37:00 PM
Anti-Aging Biotech Surges as $101M Competition Ignites Global Race Against Aging Demographics
PR Newswire Sep 18, 2025, 1:10:00 PM
UniQure Shares Double After FDA Agreement on Pathway for Huntington's Disease Treatment
Global News Select Dec 10, 2024, 3:18:00 PM
UniQure's Fabry Disease Treatment Gets Orphan Drug Designation from FDA
Global News Select Sep 23, 2024, 11:51:00 AM
Trading Information
Previous Close Price $13.66 Day Range $37.12–51.21
52-Week Range $4.45–51.21
Bid/Ask $50.27
/
$50.35 Shares Outstanding 54.87M Market Cap $2.61B Volume/Avg 70M
/
1M
Key Statistics
Price/Earnings (Normalized) —Price/Sales 171.18Dividend Yield (Trailing) 0.00%Dividend Yield (Forward) 0.00%Total Yield —
Company Profile
uniQure NV is a gene therapy company. It develops treatments and platforms for patients suffering from genetic and other devastating diseases. Its products and services are focused on hemophilia, Huntington's disease, and cardiovascular diseases. The company is focused on the development of the pipeline of gene therapies with the collaboration of Bristol Myers Squibb for cardiovascular diseases.
Show More
Sector HealthcareIndustry BiotechnologyStock Style Box Small ValueTotal Number of Employees 209Website https://www.uniqure.com
Valuation
View More
Metric
QURE
Price/Earnings (Normalized) —Price/Book Value —Price/Sales 171.18Price/Cash Flow —
Price/Earnings
QURE
Financial Strength
Metric
QURE
Quick Ratio 9.35Current Ratio 9.98Interest Coverage −2.44
Quick Ratio
QURE
Profitability
Metric
QURE
Return on Assets (Normalized) −31.83%Return on Equity (Normalized) −565.32%Return on Invested Capital (Normalized) −147.19%
Return on Assets
QURE
Biotechnology Industry Comparables
Screen With Investor
1-Day Chart
Name
Price
Morningstar Rating for Stocks
Capital Allocation
Economic Moat
Market Cap
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc
VRTX
CgysknznVjjnts$97B Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc
REGN
NnrjldwxZsyyrf$61B Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc
ALNY
NwsrgxqqsKvhvcl$60B argenx SE ADR
ARGX
GmklwdwhFst$45B BioNTech SE ADR
BNTX
DjssnnnkMfny$24B Incyte Corp
INCY
PdxbpnvhVkqzp$16B Royalty Pharma PLC Class A
RPRX
FbrhtkjqpzWtlmglf$15B BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc
BMRN
LtpnrclTnshn$10B Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc
IONS
YxfgtsfjStwpbm$10B Moderna Inc
MRNA
JtqrjnpYjpl$10B
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility