What is the definition of "cheating?" : It's Been a Minute : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
What is the definition of "cheating?" : It's Been a Minute Are you scared of being cheated on? You're not alone.There are apps and social media groups dedicated to outing a cheater. But is our paranoia about cheating actually hurting our relationships? And on top of that, definitions of "cheating" vary widely. How do you decide for yourself what really counts as cheating? And what's really fueling our fear of being cheated on?Brittany is joined by Kathryn Jezer-Morton, writer of the Brooding column from The Cut, and Shannon Keating, freelance culture journalist, to answer these questions and get to the bottom of why fear of infidelity haunts our culture and our dating lives.For handpicked podcast recommendations every week, subscribe to NPR’s Pod Club newsletter at npr.org/podclub.
It's Been a Minute
NPR
It's Been a Minute
LISTEN & FOLLOW
NPR App
Apple Podcasts
Spotify
Amazon Music
iHeart Radio
YouTube Music
RSS link
What really counts as "cheating?"
Are you scared of being cheated on? You're not alone.
August 15, 20253:00 AM ET
What really counts as "cheating?"
Listen
·
17:12
17:12
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5502845/nx-s1-mx-5672978" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Are we too afraid of cheating?
duncan1890/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
duncan1890/Getty Images
There are apps and social media groups dedicated to outing a cheater. But is our paranoia about cheating actually hurting our relationships? And on top of that, definitions of "cheating" vary widely. How do you decide for yourself what really counts as cheating? And what's really fueling our fear of being cheated on? Brittany is joined by Kathryn Jezer-Morton, writer of the Brooding column from The Cut, and Shannon Keating, freelance culture journalist, to get to the bottom of why fear of infidelity haunts our culture and our dating lives.
Sponsor Message
Life Kit
Once a cheater, always a cheater? Busting 3 common myths about infidelity
Episode Highlights How do we define cheating?  BRITTANY LUSE: I feel like emotional cheating is a newer concept, and for a lot of people, cheating includes a lot of things that don't involve kissing or sex. According to YouGov, 55% of Americans believe flirting with another person is cheating. 64% say the same about holding hands with another person, and 73% say the same about forming an intense emotional attachment to another person. Now, I am married very happily, and I'd have a problem with some of this if my husband did it, but I don't think that I would consider all of these things to necessarily be cheating. Why does cheating mean different things to different people and how has that definition broadened? KATHRYN JEZER-MORTON: I think that the way that we define cheating is really linked to the way that we define love and romance. And I think that those are very culturally determined ideas that have changed a lot over time. Something that I've been thinking about a lot is the influence of therapy talk and therapy culture on relationships and intimacy. And there's so much good, I think, that comes from that because people, especially younger people, are learning like, "I have needs, I have expectations, I have boundaries, and here is how I express them. But it also introduces this new way of thinking about romance, which is a set of behaviors and expectations versus a set of feelings. Then it brings in this other idea of what cheating is, because [maybe] instead of cheating [being defined as] someone being swept away by desire, maybe they're doing a breach of contract.
Here & Now
Infidelity Shouldn't Always Mean The End Of A Marriage, Author Esther Perel Says
Is cheating abuse? BRITTANY LUSE: I want to get into another aspect of this – some people are claiming that cheating is abuse. There's actually a whole community of people that have been cheated on who call themselves Chump Nation, and some of them are really adamant about this interpretation. How did this definition gain traction, and what do you make of how it resonates with some people? KATHRYN JEZER-MORTON: I hate to beat the same drum again, but it is a little bit related to a therapization of the self, which is like, "I've been harmed, I'm in pain, therefore I must be able to accuse them of something. I must be able to apply a label to them that characterizes them as fundamentally harmful." I don't feel comfortable equating cheating with abuse personally. I don't feel like in all cases, harm can be explained by abusive behavior.
Sponsor Message
SHANNON KEATING: "Conflict is not abuse." BRITTANY LUSE: As Sarah Schulman said, yeah, that is something that I have been thinking about. SHANNON KEATING: Yeah, it's like that Twitter meme, I'm like, "man, I think it depends." A relationship where there hasn't been cheating, it doesn't necessarily mean that that's a great and healthy relationship. There could be so many different negative dynamics that are going on that maybe a couple affairs weren't the worst thing that ever happened to you, you know? I mean, there's so many different ways that we as people can betray each other and let each other down. What does it mean that cheating haunts our dating lives?  SHANNON KEATING: I mean, I think one quite negative effect of it being so hyper-present in dating culture is that, if you think about how easy it is for someone to feel slighted and then go post about it online, there's high stakes just going into a relationship when you don't necessarily have the presumption of privacy. Or of being able to trust that you'll be able to work something out with your partner directly and give each other grace for tough stuff.
Technology
Sorting Through The Numbers On Infidelity
This episode was produced by Liam McBain. It was edited by Neena Pathak. Our Supervising Producer is Barton Girdwood. Our Executive Producer is Veralyn Williams. Our VP of Programming is Yolanda Sangweni.
cheating scandal
dating cultures
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor