tmo1’s gists · GitHub
Skip to content
Search Gists
Search Gists
All gists
Back to GitHub
Sign in
Sign up
Sign in
Sign up
You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
Dismiss alert
Instantly share code, notes, and snippets.
tmo1
27
followers
·
0
following
View GitHub Profile
All gists
2
Sort
Recently created
Least recently created
Recently updated
Least recently updated
Sort
Recently created
Least recently created
Recently updated
Least recently updated
1 file
0 forks
0 comments
2 stars
tmo1
/ synapse-caddy-docker.md
Last active
August 30, 2023 21:30
Synapse behind Caddy as a reverse proxy, using Docker
Introduction
This is a guide to deploying Synapse behind a Caddy reverse proxy, both running in Docker containers (an official Synapse one and a caddy-docker-proxy one), with the goal of implementing as much as possible via docker-compose files.
This guide will frequently refer to aspects of my similar guide for deploying Nextcloud behind a Caddy reverse proxy.
Domain Name
Obtain a domain name as per the instructions in the Nextcloud guide. For some Synapse specific considerations, see the official documentation here and here. The remainder of this guide will assume the use of the domain name example.duckdns.org.
1 file
6 forks
52 comments
68 stars
tmo1
/ nextcloud-caddy-docker.md
Last active
September 18, 2025 05:08
Nextcloud behind Caddy as a reverse proxy, using Docker
Introduction
This is a guide to deploying Nextcloud behind a Caddy reverse proxy, both running in Docker containers (an official Nextcloud one and a caddy-docker-proxy one), with the goal of implementing as much as possible via docker-compose files. This is much more difficult than it should be, for a variety of reasons:
As with Docker versions of software in general, documentation of the software does not always apply to the Docker versions, and the Docker documentation does not always include the Docker equivalent ways of doing things.
Docker images do not always expose the desired configuration knobs of the underlying software.
Nextcloud requires special configuration to run correctly behind a reverse proxy (and again, some of the instructions for this configuration requires modification for
Footer
© 2025 GitHub, Inc.
Footer navigation
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact
Manage cookies
Do not share my personal information
You can’t perform that action at this time.