How to Knead Dough the Right Way | Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Basic Homemade Bread
How to Soften Hard Bread
No-Knead Dutch Oven Bread
How to Proof Bread Dough
How to Braid Bread
Bread Machine Wheat Bread
No-Knead Casserole Bread
Sourdough Bread
How to Bake Bread When You Don't Have a Loaf Pan
Home-Style Yeast Bread
No-Knead Honey Oatmeal Bread
How to Knead Dough with a Stand Mixer
How to Make Bread Machine Recipes by Hand
One-Dish No-Knead Bread
Why Does Bread Dough Rise?
How to Make Whole Wheat Bread
No-Knead Whole Wheat Rolls
No-Knead Whole Wheat Bread
Rise Bread Dough in Oven
Master Bread Dough
Taste of Home
Home
Recipes
Cooking Style
Baking
How to Knead Bread Dough
Taste of Home
By
Lisa A. Kaminski
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 19, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Love to make homemade bread but unsure if you're kneading it right? We'll show you how to be sure you've kneaded dough enough so your loaves and rolls come out just right.
ⓘ
Making your own homemade bread is one of the most satisfying kitchen achievements, though getting started can be a bit overwhelming. When I first started dabbling in yeast breads, I fretted about proofing the yeast and letting the dough rise enough. Turns out that with a thermometer, learning how to proof yeast is simple. (Figuring out how to proof bread dough in a cold house was a major breakthrough, too.)
However, knowing how to knead dough (and how long to do it) is another story. It’s an important step: Kneading the dough helps develop gluten, which gives the bread structure. But don’t worry—once you get the hang of kneading, you’ll be ready to tackle any bread, even this gorgeous Chocolate Babka.
Hey, baker! Come on over to Bakeable, our online baking community,
where you’ll find our best tips and top-rated recipes. Then, share your bakes in our Bakeable Facebook group. We’d love to see ’em.
Visit Bakeable
How to Knead Dough
Taste of Home
To knead bread dough, turn it out—that’s baker speak for “move the dough from the bowl”—onto a lightly floured surface. Dust your hands with flour, and then shape the dough into a ball. Push the bread away from you with your palms using a rolling motion. After every push, fold the dough over on itself, then give it a quarter turn and repeat. You may need to add more flour as you go if the dough sticks.
How Can You Tell If Bread Dough Is Kneaded Enough?
While you might have your kneading technique down, it can be difficult to know if you’ve kneaded the dough long enough. There are three criteria your dough should meet before you allow it to rest for its first rise.
The Dough Is Smooth
Before you knead bread dough, it can look a little sticky and rough. Kneading helps smooth the dough out. Your dough should be ready when has a nice, smooth texture.
The Dough Springs Back
After kneading the dough for several minutes, press it with your finger. If the indentation stays, the dough still needs more work. If it springs back to its original shape, your dough is ready to rest.
The Dough Passes the Windowpane Test
TASTE OF HOME
Perhaps the best way to tell if your bread dough is properly kneaded is the windowpane test. To do this, tear off a chunk of dough and stretch it between your fingers. If the dough tears, you haven’t developed enough gluten and it needs more kneading. If it stretches without breaking, making a windowpane of sorts, you’re done and you can let the dough rest.
How Can You Tell If Dough Is Over-Kneaded?
You can tell you’ve kneaded dough too much if it becomes difficult to stretch. Sometimes this happens when you use a stand mixer or food processor. Overkneaded dough will be tough and make tough, chewy bread.
If you’ve kneaded by hand, you don’t need to be too worried about overworked dough—you’ll start to notice it getting difficult to manage. It takes a lot of elbow grease to knead bread dough; you’ll likely tire yourself out before you can over-knead.
With a simple windowpane test, you’ll be able to create smooth, perfect dough for all sorts of homemade bread recipes.
Worried about your loaf going bad before you can enjoy it? Here’s how to freeze bread.
Author
Lisa A. Kaminski
Lisa is a former Taste of Home editor. During her six years here, she researched and tested ingredients, kitchen gear and home products, and wrote articles to highlight the best of the best.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box