I put away my iPad and Kindle just hours after testing this tablet (and it's cheap) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
I put away my iPad and Kindle just hours after testing this tablet (and it's cheap)
While it may not be the latest model, the TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G has quickly become my go-to e-reader for several reasons.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 24, 2025 at 7:48 a.m. PT
ZDNET's key takeaways The TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G is a full-color, color paper, and ink paper tablet available at Verizon for $239. It's a great entertainment tablet for daily use that also functions very well as an e-reader. Although the screen is versatile, don't expect the graphics to compare to those on an iPad or other high-end tablets. View now at Verizon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Reading has always been my favorite way to unwind before bed, and for 13 years, Kindles were my go-to e-readers. But after trying TCL's Nxtpaper technology last year, I haven't looked back.  Also: The 3 charging mistakes quietly damaging your tablet - and what to do insteadWhile it's no longer the latest model from the company, the TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G has been a mainstay in my household for more than half a year now, and it felt like an upgrade almost immediately. Within hours of setting it up, I gave my daughter my old Kindle, and my husband got my old iPad.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G The TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G features 128GB of storage, expandable up to 1TB, 6GB of RAM, Face Unlock, and a versatile screen that can go from full color to ink paper.
details
View at Verizon The TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G's display smoothly transitions from regular mode to color paper or ink paper, whether you're reading, scrolling on social media, watching videos, or playing a game. TCL's Nxtpaper technology isn't the same as E Ink, which uses electrophoretic technology to create a monochromatic image.Also: How to install iPadOS 26 right now (and which iPad models support it)Instead, Nxtpaper is a paper-like display that helps reduce eye strain and improves readability over traditional screens. The display also reduces blue light, doesn't have a conventional backlight, and eliminates flickering, making it easy on the eyes while displaying the different types of content you'd expect from a flagship tablet or smartphone.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETThe lack of a backlight and the display's frosted finish reduce glare and reflections, contributing to better energy efficiency and longer battery life. Using several anti-reflective and anti-glare layers, TCL's Nxtpaper enhances readability in different conditions, so you can enjoy that bestseller on a bright day at the beach or by the pool. A front light panel evenly illuminates the screen and helps maintain a comfortable viewing experience. Also: How to clear your Android phone cache (and why it makes such a big difference)E Ink, in turn, doesn't traditionally transition from monochromatic to full color and has a slower refresh rate. Though there are color E Ink displays, they're not as vibrant or suitable for multimedia content.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETThe TCL Tab 10 Nxpaper is an entertainment tablet that lets you take your essentials anywhere. It's not meant to replace a brand-new $1,000 iPad, but it can replace an e-reader and an older iPad model, which was my case.I'm not a tablet power user. I don't need a tablet with strong processing power to replace my MacBook Pro or iMac for video editing or graphic design; I mainly use tablets for entertainment. This includes streaming video on YouTube or a subscription service, reading the news, making notes and lists, catching up on baseball, checking the weather, and playing some games. For all of those use cases, this tablet works well.Also: This 9-inch tablet singlehandedly changed my mind about gaming on AndroidI sometimes work on my tablet, but as a writer, I only need a keyboard and a reliable note-taking or word-processing app, which are easy to use on this TCL tablet.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETWhen I first tested this device, I wasn't sure what to expect. I had read about TCL's Nxtpaper but hadn't had a chance to test it until this tablet. When I first got my hands on the TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G tablet, I was surprised with the display's versatility and how easily you could switch from regular mode to color paper to ink paper, the latter being the most similar to what you might expect from an e-reader.The very first app I downloaded was Kindle. I was excited to see how this tablet would feel as an e-reader, and I wasn't disappointed.Also: The base model Kindle is the e-reader most people should buy. Here's whyA Kindle e-reader is a single-purpose device, so upgrading to a tablet with a similar display and the benefits of a faster refresh rate and processor was a pleasure. After using the same Kindle for six years, I was blown away by the simple fact that I could breeze through the Kindle app as I would on any other tablet, while the TCL Nxtpaper display looks as good as any e-reader.
The TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G has its front camera located on the landscape edge. Maria Diaz/ZDNETAfter reading for about an hour, I made up my mind. I reset the old 10th-generation Kindle, set it up with Amazon Kids for my seven-year-old, and never looked back. Even better, because now my kid is reading more than ever. During the first three days of using the Kindle, she read for four and a half hours. She's been reading for a few years but now dedicates at least 40 minutes of reading each night before bed on her own, whereas before, she'd read maybe 20 minutes a day during the school week.Also: I test tablets for a living and this is the Samsung tablet I recommend the mostThe TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G is also perfectly capable of performing the tasks my regular iPad did at home and on the go. Part of being a parent means sitting on the sidelines for hours a week while the kids attend extracurricular activities that cost an arm and a leg.This tablet has become my new iPad and Kindle while I'm killing time. Plus, if I have a deadline, I can continue my work in Docs; if I'm bored, I can stream on Netflix or scroll through TikTok; and if I'm looking to relax, I can read the latest novel I've downloaded from Kindle Unlimited.The convenience of two devices in one made it easy to give my husband my old iPad on the same day I set up the TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G. While the Android experience differs from an iPad, I've encountered minimal bugs and inconveniences. I can still work and play on the TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G, use a split screen, and stream videos flawlessly. ZDNET's buying adviceThe TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G is perfect for everyday use. This $239 tablet isn't looking to win any benchmark competitions with high-end devices, but it's an outstanding tablet for the price, especially if you like using an e-reader. But if you're looking to buy a new device from Verizon, the carrier will discount up to $100 off the TCL Tab 10, which makes it a fantastic tablet deal.Also: The Kindle Paperwhite is my favorite E Ink reader right nowThe TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G tablet is available at Verizon for $239 prepaid or $6.66 monthly for 36 months. TCL sells a T-Pen Stylus for $40 (I plan to pick one up). Verizon plans start at $30 monthly, which isn't cheap. The data plan option is best suited for those who often use the tablet on the go, outside the comforts of Wi-Fi.I'm keeping the TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper, data plan or not, because I use it mainly around the house. If I use a tablet or laptop somewhere without Wi-Fi, I'm okay with using my iPhone as a hotspot.Best tablet deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $180 (save $40)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $299 (save $50)
Lenovo Tab M9 32GB Wi-Fi 9-inch Tablet With Folio Case (2023 Release):  $95 (save $70)
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus 32GB Tablet (2022 Release, Slate):  $55 (save $65)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $395 (save $86) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
How it comparesTCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5GTCL Tab 11 Nxtpaper 5GDisplay size10.4 inches11 inchesProcessorMediaTek 8755MediaTek Helio P60T Octa-coreCamera8MP8MPBattery size6,000mAh8,000mAhWeight480g462gStorage128GB128GBPrice$239$249Update log:September 24, 2025: This review was updated and thoroughly fact-checked to reflect its market positioning one year later. Since publishing this story, the TCL Tab 11 Nxtpaper has also been released, and a separate review has been published for that model.Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Forget the iPad: TCL's newest tablet won't break the bank or strain your eyes
I tried this 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's how my buying advice changed
The 3 charging mistakes quietly damaging your tablet - and what to do instead
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use