Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityCo-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
By Bill Toulas
September 25, 2025
02:05 PM
0
The Co-operative Group in the U.K. released its interim financial results report for the first half of 2025 with a massive loss in operating profit of £80 million ($107 million) due to the cyberattack it suffered last April.
The impact is analyzed into two categories, namely £20 million in one-off incremental costs and £60 million from lost sales while systems were offline.
The cybersecurity incident also caused a reduction in revenue of £206 million ($277 million). Co-op states that it expects another £20 million in losses for the second half of the year, as recovery will continue.
Co-op is a large UK member-owned co-operative group active in food retail, life services, and business-to-business services. It operates 2,300 food retail stores and 59 franchise stores.
In late April 2025, the group shut down parts of its IT systems after detecting hacking attacks, causing limited disruption to back-office and call-center services.
A couple of days later, Co-op confirmed that it had been targeted by hackers linked to the DragonForce ransomware operation, who managed to steal personal data of a large number of current and past members, including names and contact details.
The attack, attributed to Scattered Spider affiliates, forced Co-op to rebuild its Windows domain controllers and further extend system unavailability.
On July 10th, U.K.’s National Crime Agency arrested four young suspects (ages 17–20) linked to the Co-op cyberattack, as well as those at  Marks & Spencer and Harrods that occurred around the same period.
On July 16th, Co-op published new details on its internal investigation, informing that hackers stole the personal data of all 6.5 million members during the April cyberattack.
Although Co-op’s response to the attack was prompt and prevented the attempted encryption, the group suffered a significant financial impact.
Financial losses caused by the cyberattackSource: Co-op
Information shared in the interim document describes the response in detail, explaining that certain systems that were taken offline disrupted trading and stock availability in food retail.
Manual processes were introduced temporarily, 350,000 items were rerouted to support independent co-ops and franchise partners, and discount coupons were offered to members.
Still, the group continued to face limited volume problems, experienced severe stock allocation issues, and a collapse in sales for some categories, such as tobacco.
Despite the disruption and the expected ongoing effects, liquidity remained strong, with £800 million being available to "navigate external pressures while maintaining focus on long-term ambitions."
The CFO underlined that no funding concerns arose from the cyber-incident.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Teen suspected of Vegas casino cyberattacks released to parentsPharma firm Inotiv says ransomware attack impacted operationsScattered Spider is running a VMware ESXi hacking spreeUK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptionsObscura, an obscure new ransomware variant
Business
Business Disruption
Co-op
DragonForce
Financial Results
Ransomware
Scattered Spider
Supermarket
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
CISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploit
Sponsor Posts
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT