Climate Week 2025: Risks and Opportunities for Investors | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Sustainable Investing
Climate Week 2025: Risks and Opportunities for Investors
Climate Week 2025: Risks and Opportunities for Investors
Clean energy funds, popular proxy-voting climate proposals, and what asset owners think about sustainability.
Leslie P. Norton
Sep 21, 2025
Share
At Morningstar, we believe that a world grappling with global warming brings plenty of investment risks and opportunities—and that financial markets have a big role to play in mitigating climate change.Temperatures are expected to continue at or near record levels in the next five years, increasing climate risks and impacts on societies and economies.This coming week marks Climate Week NYC and the UN General Assembly, where leaders from around the world discuss how to drive the climate transition. For Morningstar readers, we present an array of relevant content penned by Morningstar and Morningstar Sustainalytics analysts and journalists. Hortense Bioy looks at clean energy funds to consider for your portfolio as rising energy demand lifts prospects for renewables, nuclear power, and grid infrastructure.What climate-related proxy-voting proposals resonated during the recent proxy-voting season? Matteo Felleca looks at three.Ron Bundy finds that pension funds and asset owners still like environmental, social, and governance investing in Morningstar’s latest Voice of the Asset Owner survey. Liz Angeles inspects cheaply valued stocks that are leading the low-carbon transition.You’ll find some other good links about climate and sustainable investing below, from our sustainable-investing page on Morningstar.com. If you want a deeper dive, check out Morningstar Sustainalytics’ blog.4 Undervalued Global Renewable Energy Stocks Why This Fund Manager Thinks REITs Are Cheap and Sustainable REITs Have an EdgeAmid New Curbs on ESG Shareholder Resolutions, Companies May Lose Useful Signals from InvestorsTop Mid-Cap Stocks Widely Owned by ESG FundsTop Small-Cap Stocks Widely Owned by ESG FundsHow to Find Private Prison Stocks in Your PortfolioMost Workers Are Open to Sustainable Investing in Retirement Plans, Survey ShowsAs Climate Shifts, Wildfire Risks Rise for Companies and InvestorsThe 2025 Proxy Season in 7 ChartsGlobal ESG Fund Flows Rebound in Q2 2025 Despite ESG Backlash and Geopolitical UncertaintyIt’s Time to Think About Renewables AgainAt Tesla, the Shareholder Meeting Schedule Was Just the Latest Governance DramaIn Periods Including Market Stress, ESG Provides Protection, Sustainalytics Study ShowsIs ESG Data Helping Investors? No. And Yes.5 Undervalued Companies That Are Investing in Renewable EnergyBest Sustainable Companies to Own: 2025 EditionHere’s Why Sustainable Investors Are Hearing About Materiality
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Sustainable Investing
View All
US Asset Managers Keep Supporting Governance-Related Proxy-Voting Proposals
While US support slides for environmental and social resolutions, European investors back sustainability proposals.
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 24, 2025
The 2025 Proxy Season in 7 Charts Fewer resolutions and a continued fall in support for environmental and social proposals in proxy-voting season.
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Amid New Curbs on ESG Shareholder Resolutions, Companies May Lose Useful Signals From Investors The number of proxy-voting proposals with near-zero support continues to increase.
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 23, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Leslie P. Norton Editorial Director
More from Author
Leslie Norton is editorial director for sustainability at Morningstar.
Climate Week 2025: Risks and Opportunities for Investors
Leslie P. Norton Sep 21, 2025
The Hunt for ‘Desert Island’ Small-Cap Stocks
Leslie P. Norton Sep 12, 2025
Why Yardeni Says He’s Worried About an S&P 500 ‘Melt-Up’
Leslie P. Norton Sep 2, 2025
The Best Chinese Stocks to Buy
Leslie P. Norton Aug 28, 2025
Why This Fund Manager Thinks REITs Are Cheap and Sustainable REITs Have an Edge
Leslie P. Norton Aug 28, 2025
Cliffwater’s Huber: Why Advisors Are Finally Coming Around to Private Markets
Leslie P. Norton Aug 8, 2025
Why Buffett’s Japanese Trading House Picks Have Room to Rise 20% or More
Leslie P. Norton Jul 24, 2025
It’s Time to Think About Renewables Again
Leslie P. Norton Jul 18, 2025
5 Undervalued Companies That Are Investing in Renewable Energy
Susan Zhou Jul 14, 2025
Best Sustainable Companies to Own: 2025 Edition
Emelia Fredlick Jul 14, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility