Can't hear TV dialogue? This portable soundbar solved my audio problems for cheap | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
TVs
Can't hear TV dialogue? This portable soundbar solved my audio problems for cheap
If you're looking for great sound without breaking the bank, Creative offers a compact, budget-friendly option worth checking out.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 20, 2025 at 1:00 a.m. PT
Creative Stage Pro soundbar
ZDNET's key takeaways The Creative Stage Pro soundbar is available on Amazon for $170.This cost-effective soundbar excels at producing clear dialogue.The Stage Pro subwoofer won't blow you away, but it does add some depth to voices. View now at Amazon Best tv deals of the week
75-inch TCL QM6K 4K QD-Mini LED Google TV (2025 Model):  $850 (save $150)
85-inch Samsung Q60D Series 4K QLED Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,200 (save $498)
65-inch LG C4 Series 4K 120Hz OLED Evo Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,297 (save $1,403)
65-inch Samsung S90D Series 4K OLED 144Hz Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,298 (save $400)
75-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K Full Array LED Smart TV (2023 Model):  $1,198 (save $602) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.This space-saving soundbar/subwoofer combo
from Creative might not meet the lofty demands of an audiophile, but for anyone who wants more sound from their movies or television, it ticks a lot of boxes.Also: This stereo amp made me feel like I was hearing my favorite band for the first timeSelling for $170 on Amazon, the Stage Pro is a midrange soundbar that does one particular thing very well: ensure you can hear every word of dialogue spoken, an issue that frustrates some to the point of watching with subtitles on. Thanks to this soundbar, though, you won't have to do that any longer.Let's chat about what this soundbar can do.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Creative Stage Pro soundbar. This soundbar from Creative is a game-changer for anyone who struggles to hear dialogue.
details
View at Amazon My experienceFirst off, the bar has been set very high for soundbars in my house, thanks to the JBL Bar 1000. That soundbar produces amazingly accurate and rich sound, and I've yet to come across one to best it. Of course, the Bar 1000 sells for $1200 on Amazon, which is beyond the budget of many.Thankfully, there are plenty of low- to midrange soundbars to choose from, and although the Stage Pro lives in the upper low-end spectrum of devices, it sounds much better than its price would imply.Also: One of the best-sounding speakers I've listened to is not made by JBL or KlipschAs soon as I received the Stage Pro, my immediate thought was, "This is small." Because of the "Pro" name, I assumed it would at least be close to the size of the Bar 1000. Alas, the length of the sound bar is a mere 21 inches long. You might think that would preclude it from producing enough volume to be usable, but that you'd be wrong.I connected the Stage Pro to my TV via HDMI/eARC port, connected the subwoofer (via the attached cable), and plugged both the soundbar and subwoofer into a power outlet. I then opened Netflix. I'm currently re-binging "Travelers," so I pressed play and sat back to see how this tiny speaker did.
Left: the JBL Bar 1000; Right: the Stage Pro subwoofer.  Jack Wallen/ZDNETNeedless to say, I was impressed. Now, let me be specific.What immediately impressed me was the dialogue, which was very crisp, clear, and loud enough. Kudos to Creative, because we all know how much of an issue dialogue in modern movies and TV can be. The Stage Pro delivered every word spoken so clearly you might think the characters were standing in the room speaking directly at you.Also: How a small subwoofer caught this audiophile off guard (and in the best way possible)What a breath of fresh air.On top of the clear dialogue, the setup and usage were incredibly easy. In fact, I would say that this was the easiest soundbar I've ever connected to a TV. Plug it in, turn everything on, and you're good to go.
The Stage Pro remote is very easy to use, but doesn't include AAA batteries. Jack Wallen/ZDNETOn the remote, you'll find a button labeled "Super Wide," allowing you to switch between far and near fields, meaning you can switch between distances from the source. If you're watching in a small room, use the near field option. If you're in a larger room with plenty of space between you and the source, select the far field option. Believe it or not, it does make a difference in the clarity of the sound based on your watching position. There's also the Mode button, which allows you to select from movie, TV, audio, and gaming. I recommend you use this feature, as it also makes a difference in the sound. Also: These budget earbuds turned an audiophile into an open-ear believerAs far as the bass is concerned, it's not booming, but it certainly does bring out the low end of what you're watching. This subwoofer is nowhere near the quality of the Bar 1000, but at $170, I wouldn't expect it to be. That being said, the sub did impress me, especially for TV. With the sub cranked up (you can increase bass and treble on the remote), it gave much more depth to the voices. I've tested other soundbars that either don't include a subwoofer or don't use it properly, which equates to hollow-sounding dialogue (a pet peeve of mine). The Stage Pro avoids that pitfall and delivers rich dialogue and a bit of low-end "thump" when needed.ZDNET's buying adviceDo I recommend the Creative Stage Pro soundbar? It depends on what you're looking for. If you're in the market for a soundbar that produces sonic booms on the low end, crisp highs, and a massively wide soundstage, the Stage Pro isn't for you. Also: What is EQ and why is it an important factor in improving sound?If, on the other hand, you want a cost-effective soundbar that puts dialogue front and center and elevates it with a bit of rich bass, this soundbar is right up your alley. The Creative Stage Pro is an inexpensive soundbar that will make you think you're listening to one twice the cost. Because it's so easy to set up, anyone can enjoy this baby within minutes of unboxing.Creative Stage Pro 2.1 soundbar tech specsFrequency response - 50–20,000 HzSignal-to-Noise Ratio - > 85 dBPower Output - 2 x 20Wrms (L/R), 1 x 40Wrms (Sub) (Total 80Wrms, 160Wpeak)Connectivity - HDMI 2.0, Bluetooth 5.3, USB Audio, and optical.Dimensions - Sub: 4.53 × 10.43 × 16.54 inches, Soundbar 21.65 × 4.41 × 3.18 inchesFeatured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to disable ACR on your TV - and why you should ASAP
I changed these 5 settings on my TV to significantly improve the picture quality
Slow Roku TV? This 30-second routine will keep your device running like new
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use