Jimmy Kimmel FCC Debacle Shows Free Speech Transcends Culture Wars - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
Jimmy Kimmel showed the one line Corporate America can't cross
By
Madeline Berg
and
Lucia Moses
President Donald Trump, left, and Jimmy Kimmel, right.
Getty Images
2025-09-25T08:14:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Disney's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel's show after FCC threats sparked rare bipartisan backlash.
The suspension led to protests and calls to cancel Disney+ and Hulu subscriptions.
Americans cherish free speech — and they don't want the government pressuring companies to police it.
The Kimmel debacle shows where America draws the line — and the FCC crossed it, taking Disney along with it.
It's become common for companies to get ensnared in controversy. Think of Cracker Barrel's rebrand, Sydney Sweeney's American Eagle ad, and Bud Light's partnership with Dylan Mulvaney.But when Disney suspended "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" on ABC following threats by the FCC, the bipartisan nature of the backlash set it apart.
From the manosphere to Capitol Hill and Disney parks to America's living rooms, the affair showed corporate America that messing with free speech is a line that cannot be crossed. It could've been a run-of-the-mill culture war, but the pressure from the highest office in the land widened the outrage, experts told Business Insider. While the legal ramifications may not be over — Trump has threatened to sue Disney — businesses and the government are on notice: don't mess with our yap."The freedom to say what you want is so fundamental in America. It hits people more in the gut than abject talk about the constitution," Theda Skocpol, a professor of government and sociology at Harvard, told Business Insider. "You can say any damn thing — this is a widely held value across partisan lines."The rare bipartisan backlash is a lesson for businessesAmerica's growing political divide is a headache for businesses. It undermines workplace collaboration, hinders financial success, leads to lower employee productivity, and increases turnover.
For some of the world's most iconic brands, it can also mean getting caught in the crosshairs on a global stage.As the happiest place on earth, Disney holds a special spot in the public imagination. However, it's also become a punching bag in the culture wars, with conservatives seeing a liberal agenda in almost everything it makes.This time, though, the backlash was bipartisan: Sen. Ted Cruz, Joe Rogan, Candace Owens, and Ben Shapiro joined the chorus of liberal voices in criticizing Disney bending to FCC Chair Brendan Carr's threats. Meanwhile, hundreds of people protested, and search volume for "cancel Disney Plus" and "cancel Hulu" spiked.
Aiming to keep up the pressure on Disney, 100 former ABC News employees this week called on Iger to make clear to defend ABC News against political attacks, while a Disney investor group demanded that the company disclose internal records related to Kimmel's suspension.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The main uniting factor was the pressure from Trump and Carr. Conservatives worried that it could set a precedent for a Democratic administration. One former Disney+ and Hulu subscriber told Business Insider before Kimmel's reinstatement, "If Disney's going to cave to Trump, then Disney doesn't get my money.""It's not the principle of free speech," Norman Ornstein, a political scientist at the conservative think tank American Enterprise Institute, told Business Insider. "But the willingness to use a regulatory agency and its chair to intimidate adversaries to exact retribution, to use their power to crush opponents, I think that is troubling to the Ted Cruzs of the world, at least some of them."
To Rishad Tobaccowala, a longtime ad industry exec, the episode showed how free speech is a deeply held value in America that crosses political lines. For CEOs, he said, "the takeaway is to align yourself with human values. People aren't as divided as people think, so speak to the center instead of trying to make both sides happy."To be sure, the glasnost could be short-lived.Social posts on X during Kimmel's suspension, pulled by social analysis firm PeakMetrics, suggested that a lot of people remain in their ideological bunkers. Its analysis found that conservatives who were jumping on Disney were doing so based on their longstanding grievances about Disney being too "woke" rather than for canceling Kimmel.
Trump could double down on his attacks against the media and other perceived opponents. Victor Pickard, who teaches media studies at the University of Pennsylvania, called the suspension "indefensible, and an unprecedented abuse of regulatory power."At least for now, the public's response shows its desire to defend free speech against government interference."That's up to us," Harvard's Skocpol said. "ABC backed off because there was beginning to be a groundswell."
Recommended video
Disney
Donald Trump
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account