CEO's 'Powerful' Business Change Leads to 8-Figure Revenue | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Growing a Business
This CEO's 'Powerful' Switch-Up Is Securing 8-Figure Revenue and DMs From Nordstrom
Ginny Seymour always dreamed of being a CEO — and it's paying off.
By
Amanda Breen
Edited by
Jessica Thomas
Sep 18, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Seymour wanted to transform London-based fashion brand Aligne into an accessible one for "confident" women.
She leaned on an omnichannel approach to push the company toward major growth and eight-figure revenue.
"It's always been my dream to be a CEO of a fashion brand," Ginny Seymour, CEO of contemporary women's fashion brand Aligne, tells Entrepreneur.Image Credit: Courtesy of Aligne. CEO Ginny Seymour.A fashion industry veteran who started her career as a contemporary buyer at Saks Fifth Avenue, Seymour had an opportunity to realize that goal with Aligne, originally founded by Dalbir Bains as a wholesale women's fashion brand in London in 2020.
Seymour envisioned a new era for Aligne — the brand could fill a white space she saw in modern women's clothing: the need for design-led, wearable pieces at an accessible price point, delivered with an omnichannel approach.Related: 5 Things I Wish Someone Had Told Me Before I Became a CEO
Seymour set out to make it happen, essentially "refounding" the company. She joined the business as managing director in 2022, relaunched Aligne under her vision in 2023 and was officially named CEO in 2024.Image Credit: Courtesy of Aligne"I felt partners [had to be] a huge part of the story."During her first several years as CEO, Seymour focused on Aligne's community building online and "design handwriting," then branched out from a direct-to-consumer strategy to an omnichannel approach with U.S. retail partners.In fact, despite being a London-founded brand, Aligne sees a larger part of its business unfolding in the U.S., Seymour says.The CEO even recently relocated from London to New York to support the U.S. office and team as the brand continues its expansion." We're still based in the UK, so I travel back and forth," Seymour says. "London to me is our creative hub; it's part of our DNA being a British brand. That's super important to me and something we don't want to lose. So we're very much creatively driven out of London, but commercially driven out of the U.S."
Image Credit: Courtesy of AligneRelated: 'We Got So Many DMs': This 27-Year-Old Revamped Her Parents' Decades-Old Business and Grew Direct-to-Consumer Sales From $60,000 to Over $500,000As a still relatively young British brand, Aligne gains validation with a U.S. audience through retailers that have loyal customer bases.
"In  the UK, it's easier to be direct-to-consumer only because the UK is much smaller and more attainable," Seymour says. "But in the U.S., to resonate as the next contemporary brand that people should be looking at, I felt partners [had to be] a huge part of the story."Aligne recently launched with Nordstrom, a retailer Seymour says she'd always hoped to partner with one day, after the company direct-messaged her to express its interest in the brand. Aligne is also available at Anthropologie.Image Credit: Courtesy of AligneRelated: Her Self-Funded Brand Hit $25 Million Revenue Last Year — And 3 Secrets Keep It Growing Alongside Her 'Mischievous' Second Venture: 'Entrepreneurship Is a Mind Game'
"There's less visibility [into] the analytics and who your customer is. You have to really listen."Despite the long-term goal to expand in retail, Seymour first prioritized understanding Aligne as a brand and its relationship to customers before tackling those partnerships, appreciating how important that strategy is for sustainable success.Whether you're refounding a business that already exists or starting one from scratch, knowing who your customer is — and quickly — will make or break its growth.  "And that's easier said than done," the CEO notes. "There are so many factors. With every iOS update, there's less visibility [into] the analytics and who your customer is. You have to really listen."Aligne's target customers are "confident, working" women, and acknowledging what those consumers wanted in a clothing line helped guide the brand's design shift and the direction of its collection, Seymour says.
Related: This Is the Real Secret to Exceeding Your Customer's ExpectationsDialing into that customer base is paying off. Aligne ended its fiscal year in July 2025 with 56% year-over-year revenue growth and revenue approaching eight figures.Most of Aligne's pieces are priced between $100 and $300. Although Seymour recognizes why some brands evolve into the "premium contemporary" space amid rising costs and tariff challenges, she says the company is committed to its accessible price point.Image Credit: Courtesy of Aligne
"I quickly had to learn where I didn't want to lean and how to make sure to get the support."Being a CEO is a lot harder than Seymour thought it would be when she was 20 years old, she admits. But she appreciates how the job has allowed her to draw on her experience as a buyer, which demanded a "balance of art and science" much like the executive role does."[There might be a] week that I'm so artistic and designing the concept and the line, and there's other days where I'm definitely leaning into the science," Seymour says. "But I quickly had to learn where I didn't want to lean and how to make sure to get the support in those areas because a CEO wears so many hats."Related: I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
One of the biggest lessons Seymour's learned during her tenure as CEO so far is the value in listening to her instincts — even when it's difficult. Over the first couple of months of the company's refounding, Seymour sometimes hesitated to say what she wanted, then didn't get the results that she desired."Three months in, I had this moment where I brought the team together and was much clearer about what I wanted," Seymour says. "That brought them more on the journey with me, and it solidified us as a team and our values. If you have an idea and you're building your own business, trusting your gut and not being scared to say it is powerful."
"It's always been my dream to be a CEO of a fashion brand," Ginny Seymour, CEO of contemporary women's fashion brand Aligne, tells Entrepreneur.Image Credit: Courtesy of Aligne. CEO Ginny Seymour.A fashion industry veteran who started her career as a contemporary buyer at Saks Fifth Avenue, Seymour had an opportunity to realize that goal with Aligne, originally founded by Dalbir Bains as a wholesale women's fashion brand in London in 2020.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Amanda Breen
Entrepreneur Staff
Senior Features Writer
Amanda Breen is a senior features writer at Entrepreneur.com. She is a graduate of Barnard College and received an MFA in writing at Columbia University, where she was a news fellow for the School of the Arts.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business News
Meta Just Unveiled New Smart Glasses With an Embedded Display — and an iPhone 17 Price Point. Here's How They Work.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg gave the keynote address at the Meta Connect event on Wednesday in Menlo Park, California.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Side Hustle
How I Used Side Hustles to Pay Off $40,000 Debt in 1 Year
Marissa Cazem Potts wanted to take control of her financial future.
By
Amanda Breen
Growing a Business
I Looked Successful, But Inside I Was Falling Apart — This Trifecta Method Took Me From Rock Bottom to Peak Performance
What looked like success nearly broke me — until I discovered an unconventional path to rebuilding energy, clarity and purpose.
By
Marc Kielburger
Business News
The CEO of a $183 Billion AI Startup Says There's a 'Need to Warn the World' About AI Taking Jobs
Two of Anthropic's cofounders caution that AI could rapidly replace human jobs.
By
Sherin Shibu
Accounting
This Is a Rare Chance to Save More Than 70% on QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus 2024
Get access to features that help leaders take control of accounting.
By
Entrepreneur Store
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC