$6.2 Billion Nexstar Deal Looms Over Jimmy Kimmel's Suspension - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Media
A $6.2 billion deal looms over Jimmy Kimmel's suspension
By
Dan Whateley
FCC chair Brendan Carr criticized late-night host Jimmy Kimmel shortly before his show was pulled off the air.
Tom Williams/Getty Images; Michael Le Brecht/Disney via Getty Images
2025-09-18T18:40:22Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Jimmy Kimmel's show was suspended by ABC following criticism by FCC chair Brendan Carr.
The two biggest local TV operators also came out swinging against Kimmel before his show was pulled.
The companies are both pursuing, or considering, M&A deals that would require FCC approval.
Jimmy Kimmel is off the air, and his show's abrupt suspension has put a spotlight on the fraught politics of the broadcast TV business — and the billions of dollars at stake.
The late-night host's show was pulled from ABC on Wednesday after Kimmel made comments about Charlie Kirk's death. The comments had drawn the ire of Federal Communications Commission chair Brendan Carr, who said in an interview earlier that day that the FCC might need to place broadcast licenses under review to ensure stations were operating "in the public interest."Carr's comments were bad news for local TV operators who own ABC affiliate stations. These affiliate stations carry ABC programming under contract but aren't owned by the network itself.
The two biggest local TV operators, Nexstar Media Group and Sinclair, both came out swinging against Kimmel, pressuring ABC to pull the plug on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"The companies said they would remove his show from their stations because they objected to Kimmel's comments. Sinclair's vice chairman, Jason Smith, called Kimmel's words "inappropriate and deeply insensitive," while Nexstar's broadcasting division president, Andrew Alford, said they were "offensive and insensitive at a critical time in our national political discourse."Nexstar's chief communications officer Gary Weitman said the decision to pull "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" was made "unilaterally by the senior executive team at Nexstar, and they had no communication with the FCC or any government agency prior to making that decision," Variety reported.
Nexstar and Sinclair operate ABC affiliate stations in many markets, including areas that lean conservative like Lubbock, Texas, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, where audiences may have reacted negatively to Kimmel's comments.The companies also have business reasons to keep Carr and the FCC happy.
The Jimmy Kimmel fallout is ramping up. Get caught up here:Here's what Jimmy Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk on his late-night show that got him pulled off the airLate-night TV is under threat from Trump and a precarious business modelThese are the demands ABC-affiliate Sinclair is making to air Jimmy Kimmel againPeter Kafka: The Trump administration forcing Jimmy Kimmel off the air is bad. Very bad.
In August, Nexstar announced it wanted to buy Tegna, another local TV operator, for $6.2 billion in a deal that would require FCC approval. That same month, Sinclair said it was reviewing its business and considering "acquisitions, strategic partnerships, and business combinations," which would also be subject to FCC review.
Nexstar's deal with Tegna isn't straightforward. By buying Tegna, it would likely increase its local TV ownership to more than 39% of US households, which is prohibited by law.There are some nuances in how the FCC calculates ownership share, including the type of spectrum that a local TV station uses to air its shows. But ultimately, for the deal to proceed, the companies would likely need an FCC waiver or an increase in the national ownership cap, which would require a rule change, said Rob Frieden, a telecommunications and law professor at Penn State University."The FCC has recently issued a notice of inquiry, and they have solicited comments to refresh the record because they are certainly looking for ways to accommodate these mega mergers," Frieden said.
So, what might you do if you want to stay in the FCC's good graces in this current political environment? As a starting point, you could listen to its chair when he complains about a late-night TV host."Nexstar and Tegna have a very recent precedent, the Paramount merger, in which the lesson they may well have learned is that they have to make the Trump administration or the FCC happy enough with them in order to get an approval of the merger," said Jim Speta, a law professor at Northwestern University."Don't forget that Kimmel is not the first late-night host that has been taken off the air or told they're going off the air in the past few months," he said, referring to CBS's cancellation of "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert."
CBS wrote in mid-July that Colbert's cancellation was "purely a financial decision" and was "not related in any way to the show's performance, content or other matters happening at Paramount." A week later, the FCC announced it had approved Skydance's acquisition of Paramount CBS.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account