Cyberattack disrupts check-in systems at major European airports : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Cyberattack disrupts check-in systems at major European airports A cyberattack targeting check-in and boarding systems has disrupted air traffic and caused delays at several of Europe's major airports, officials said Saturday.
Europe
Cyberattack disrupts check-in systems at major European airports
September 20, 20256:00 AM ET
By
The Associated Press
People at BER airport as a cyber attack has caused delays, in Berlin, Germany, on Saturday.
Carsten Koall/DPA via AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Carsten Koall/DPA via AP
BRUSSELS — A cyberattack targeting check-in and boarding systems has disrupted air traffic and caused delays at several of Europe's major airports, officials said Saturday.
National Security
Flushable wipes and Iran: Water treatment facility adds cyber attacks to worry list
Brussels airport reported that the attack means that only manual check-in and boarding was possible there, and the incident was having a "large impact" on flight schedules. "There was a cyberattack on Friday night 19 September against the service provider for the check-in and boarding systems affecting several European airports including Brussels Airport," it said in a statement. Authorities at Berlin's Brandenburg Airport said a service provider for passenger handling systems was attacked on Friday evening, prompting airport operators to cut off connections to the systems.
Sponsor Message
London Heathrow Airport, Europe's busiest, said "a technical issue" affected a service provider for check-in and boarding systems. "Collins Aerospace, which provides check-in and boarding systems for several airlines across multiple airports globally, is experiencing a technical issue that may cause delays for departing passengers," Heathrow said in a statement. The airports advised travelers to check their flight status and apologized for any inconvenience. Formed in 2018, Collins is a U.S. aviation and defense technology company and a subsidiary of RTX Corp., which was formerly Raytheon Technologies. Collins provides the technology that allows passengers to check themselves in, print boarding passes and bag tags, and dispatch their own luggage, all from a kiosk. Collins said it was "aware of a cyber-related disruption" to its MUSE (Multi-User System Environment) software at "select airports" but that manual check-in operations could still be used. "We are actively working to resolve the issue and restore full functionality to our customers as quickly as possible," it said in a statement. "The impact is limited to electronic customer check-in and baggage drop and can be mitigated with manual check-in operations." The impact was felt only at some airports: the Roissy, Orly and Le Bourget airports in the Paris area reported no disruptions.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor