Windows Paint just got a major Photoshop-like upgrade you'll want to try - what's new | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Creativity Software
Windows Paint just got a major Photoshop-like upgrade you'll want to try - what's new
Microsoft has been steadily transforming Paint into a more robust and advanced image editor. Here's how to try its latest features.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 7:31 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Microsoft / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysWindows 11 Paint can now save your work with all edits intact.Paint also now lets you adjust the transparency of your strokes.The new features are rolling out to Windows 11 insiders.One of the many handy features in Adobe Photoshop is the ability to save your work as a PSD file with all your layers, edits, and adjustments intact. You can then open that file when you want to continue where you left off. Now Microsoft is adding the same capability to Windows Paint.Also: Microsoft Copilot 3D turns your 2D images into 3D models for free - how to tryCurrently rolling out to Windows 11 insiders on the Canary and Dev channels, the new project files feature will save your work as an editable Paint file that you can open and continue modifying. Here's how it works and why it's useful. How project files work in Windows PaintLet's say you're using Paint to create or edit an image with different layers. Normally, you might save that image as a PNG or JPG file. But that's a problem since those formats won't retain the layers. That means you can't make any additional adjustments to them should the image require further editing. Also: This new Photoshop feature can boost image resolution in just one click, thanks to AITo continue editing the image, you can instead save it as a .paint file. This preserves your layers and other changes so you can easily pick up where you left off. To do this, just click the File menu and select Save as Project. Choose a name and location for the file. When you want to resume your work with the layers and other edits intact, just open the .paint file and you'll see your editable image as you left it. Photoshop competitor?Photoshop and other third-party image editors have long offered a similar option. I use Photoshop Elements, which also allows me to save my work in progress. But with this capability available in the built-in Paint app, many people may not need to rely as much on third-party tools, especially paid ones. Another cool new Paint feature accessible for Windows 11 insiders is an opacity slider. Here, you can control the transparency of your strokes with the Pencil and Brush tools. For this, just select either tool. On the left side, you'll see two sliders -- one for size and the other for opacity. Adjust the setting for opacity and start drawing with the pencil or brush. You'll see how the strokes become lighter and more transparent the more you tone down the opacity. Also: The best graphic design software of 2025: Feature-packed, professional toolsMicrosoft has been on a tear the past few years, trying to transform Paint into a more robust and advanced image editor. In 2023, the company added support for layers and transparency. In 2024, it unveiled an AI-driven tool called Cocreator that can generate images for you. Other updatesBeyond sprucing up Paint, Microsoft has also enhanced a couple of other apps courtesy of the latest Windows 11 insider builds. The Snipping Tool now lets you mark up and edit your screenshots before you save them. And Notepad now supports AI-powered skills like Summarize, Write, and Rewrite on Copilot+ PCs with no Copilot subscription required. Also: How to make GIMP more like PhotoshopIf you have a Windows 11 Canary or Dev build and want to check out these new tools, make sure you've updated both Windows 11 and Paint to the latest versions. Assuming these features work as expected, Microsoft will likely roll them out to all Windows 11 users in an upcoming update. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PC
Is OneDrive sending your Windows files to the cloud? Here's why - and what you can do
Microsoft gives Windows 10 its penultimate update - but saves the best for Windows 11
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use