I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
The Tabwee T90 is one of the first tablets to run on Android 16, and its Gemini AI benefits make it well worth it.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 19, 2025 at 6:56 a.m. PT
Tabwee T90
ZDNET's key takeaways A very capable entry-level tablet. Normally priced at $230, the tablet is currently available for only $120. While the screen is ideal under most conditions, it does struggle in bright sunlight. $229.99 at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I get to test and review a lot of tablets in my job, and the iPad used to be the benchmark that all others were compared to. But now that you can pick up an iPad for $350, it's not the high-end premium bit of kit that it once was. And the lower end of the market is especially well catered for in terms of high-quality, low-cost products. Also: The best tablets you can buyOne tablet that I've been putting through its paces is the Tabwee T90. Tabwee says this is the world's first Android 16 tablet and is capable of running Gemini AI. It's certainly the first one that I came across, but more premium models like the Samsung Galaxy Tab S11 have also launched with the latest Android operating system. So you'll want to Tabwee with a grain of salt.Still, it's a very capable tablet -- especially at its current price.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Tabwee T90 The world's first Android 16 tablet with Gemini AI support.
details
View at Amazon The T90 is an 11-inch, 1,920 by 1,200 pixel/120Hz tablet running Android 16 and powered by the Unisoc T615 octa-core processor humming along at 1.8GHz, and the pixels are pushed to the display through a Mali G57 GPU.There's 8GB of physical RAM, with the option of boosting that to 24GB using virtual RAM. Since the tablet has 128GB of storage, handing over 12GB to RAM duties makes sense because if you get short on storage space, you can always add more using a microSD card.
No, there's only the one camera on the rear!  Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET On the front of the tablet is a 5-megapixel camera, which is joined by a 16-megapixel camera on the back. Yes, despite the three-camera array on the back, there's only one camera. I'm not sure what's going on here. Maybe the same part is being reused, or maybe it's a stylistic thing that makes it look like an iPhone or iPad. Also: Finally, an Android tablet that I can confidently recommend to gamersInside is an 8,000mAh battery that's good for about five to six hours of web browsing or a couple of days of music playback. That's decent enough for a package that weighs only 17.8 oz/505 grams and 0.34 inches/8.7 mm thick.
The Tabwee T90 is surprisingly thin. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET But these are just cold specifications. The proof of the pudding is in real-world usage.I'm not going to pretend that the T90 is the fastest or bestest tablet you can buy -- it isn't. Benchmark scores put this tablet into the entry-level category, but entry-level in 2025 is a lot different from the entry-level hardware of five years ago. The days of entry-level meaning treacle-slow or stuttering user interface are long gone, and this thing handles daily tasks with ease.Also: The best Android tablets you can buyThrow video playback, a dozen browser tabs, Gemini AI workloads, or even a game at this tablet, and it handles everything with ease. I recommend maxing out the virtual RAM setting -- it noticeably smooths out minor slowdowns I experienced early on and significantly improves boot times.
Boost the virtual RAM to 16GB for best performance. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET The cameras on the T90 are perfectly adequate for their intended use, producing photos that are more than suitable for social media or casual sharing. The front-facing camera handles video conferencing smoothly, delivering clear and reliable results.At just the right balance of weight and ergonomics, the tablet is comfortable enough for extended handheld use -- if that's your preferred style.Also: Why I recommend this Lenovo tablet over competing models that cost twice the priceIt also comes bundled with a stylus, keyboard, and mouse. These accessories are perfectly fine for light or occasional use, though I wouldn't recommend typing out War and Peace on that keyboard. A protective folio cover is also included and does a solid job shielding the tablet from everyday bumps and knocks.If there's one area I'd improve, it's the display brightness. The 350-nit panel is adequate for indoor use but struggles in direct sunlight. While most people don't use tablets extensively outdoors, it's worth noting -- especially if screen visibility on the go is a priority. For comparison, the standard iPad reaches 500 nits, while the iPad Pro hits 1,000 nits for regular content and up to 1,600 nits for HDR.Best tablet deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $180 (save $40)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $299 (save $50)
Lenovo Tab M9 32GB Wi-Fi 9-inch Tablet With Folio Case (2023 Release):  $95 (save $70)
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus 32GB Tablet (2022 Release, Slate):  $55 (save $65)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $395 (save $86) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
ZDNET's buying adviceWith a regular price of $230, the Tabwee T90 is well worth a look for someone looking for an entry-level tablet. I mean, go back a few years, and that sort of money didn't buy you much at all. But right now there's a whopping $110 off coupon on Amazon, stomping the price down to only $120 -- that'll buy you five polishing cloths from the Apple Store!At the current price, this is an unbeatable deal. If you've been looking for a cheap tablet for yourself, maybe for the workshop or kitchen, for media consumption, or just as a daily driver for light use, this is a great choice. Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tried this 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's how my buying advice changed
Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's why
This TCL phone with a paper-like display can easily replace my Kindle
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use