Samsung's Health app might be getting an AI health coach - what we know | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Health
Home
Health
Samsung's Health app might be getting an AI health coach - what we know
The assistant will answer your health and wellness questions. Like similar apps, however, there's one thing it won't do.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 16, 2025 at 1:32 p.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysSamsung's Health app appears to be getting an AI assistant.The assistant can answer health- and wellness-related questions.The AI health coach
can't diagnose or treat medical conditions. Samsung has made major investments in its health technology, and that mission looks to be continuing with a new Health app. Samsung is rolling out an AI health coach called "Samsung Health Assistant," Android Authority found while digging around Samsung's beta on the Health app. Also: Every AI model is flunking medicine - and LMArena proposes a fixThe AI-powered assistant, presumably powered by Google's Gemini (which powers its Galaxy Watches), will reportedly answer questions on health and wellness. It offers tips and encourages users to log health data. The chatbot can't diagnose or treat medical conditions, but it can answer user questions about health, sleep, and activity-related topics. Earlier this summer, Samsung unveiled its AI-powered Running Coach feature alongside the release of its new lineup of Galaxy Watches. Running Coach takes activity data, measures running ability through a short running test, and then creates a personalized plan users can follow to achieve their desired pace or prepare for their next race. Health Assistant could suggest more content similar to Running Coach, but with other activities -- possibly swimming or cycling -- in mind. In Android Authority's screen recording of the Health Assistant beta, the AI offers a selection of activities users could participate in to increase their daily activity goals after it notices that the user's activity level is low. Samsung Health Assistant is expected to launch later this year, according to Android Authority. Also: I tested an AI-powered Running Coach on my Galaxy WatchAI-powered health assistants are a hot commodity in the wearables space. Whoop, Oura, and now Samsung all have AI-powered chatbots of their own. Google is redesigning its Fitbit experience to include one as well. There's speculation that Apple is developing one, which could see a 2026 rollout.  Upon rollout, users will be able to access the Health Assistant by clicking on the chat icon in the top right corner of the Health app. Health
The 5 best treadmill desks: Walk while you work
Oura rolls out blood oxygen sensing for 3rd generation Ring
Are period tracking apps safe?
The top 5 electric toothbrushes: Effortlessly clean teeth
The 5 best treadmill desks: Walk while you work
Oura rolls out blood oxygen sensing for 3rd generation Ring
Are period tracking apps safe?
The top 5 electric toothbrushes: Effortlessly clean teeth
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
The Apple Watch Series 11 is one feature away from making me ditch my Oura Ring
Apple just got FDA clearance for Hypertension Detection - does your watch support it?
How to use your Apple Watch's Hypertension Detection feature (and why you should)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use