What Is Cellular Internet And Is It A Reliable Broadband Connection?
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test ISPs
HomeHome Internet Broadband
What Is Cellular Internet And Is It A Reliable Broadband Connection?
A recent report points to the rising popularity of this internet connection type. Here are the details.
Trisha Jandoc Former Associate Writer Trisha Jandoc was an associate writer at CNET covering broadband and everything related to home internet. She graduated from St. John's University with a bachelor's degree in journalism and a focus on multimedia reporting. She was born in the Philippines and resides on Long Island. In her free time, Trisha loves to travel and support nonprofit and advocacy work she's passionate about.
See full bio
Trey Paul Former Senior Editor Trey Paul was a CNET senior editor covering broadband. His 20+ years of experience as a writer and editor include time at the broadband marketplace Allconnect, as well as working with clients like Yahoo!, Google, The New York Times and Choice Hotels. An avid movie fan, Trey's career includes being a film and TV critic while pursuing a degree in New York. Expertise Home internet and broadband, including plans, providers, internet speeds and connection types. Movies and film studies. Credentials Master's degree in Cinema Studies from NYU and interviews with Conan O'Brien, Stan Lee and some of his biggest Star Trek childhood idols
See full bio
Trisha Jandoc
,
Trey Paul
June 13, 2025
5:00 a.m. PT 9 min read
NurPhoto/Getty Images
The latest report from the American Customer Satisfaction Index highlights that for the first time ever, a non-fiber internet provider, T-Mobile 5G Home Internet, matched in score with AT&T Fiber. In other words, customers are just as happy with a cellular internet service over a wired one through fiber. Cellular internet doesn't deliver fast speeds in comparison to fiber. However, it could still be a lifeline for disconnected communities in rural areas. According to the latest Pew Research Center data, 73% of rural residents subscribe to high-speed internet at home. However, they are still less likely to have access compared to 86% of suburban and 77% of urban residents. Additionally, the number of adults dependent on their smartphones for the internet has doubled in the past year. Having a reliable home internet connection is a must in today's world, but many rural areas are still left in the dark, as seen with the digital divide. So, is cellular internet a solid broadband option and is it reliable? Over at the J.D. Power customer satisfaction survey, it also highlights that wireless customers have a better overall satisfaction score of 630 out of 1,000 compared to 538 for wired customers in 2024. The same report shows that home internet users are prioritizing affordability and availability over speed due to the steep costs of having fiber or cable connections. Cellular providers caught wind of this and are responding accordingly, as seen with the rise of internet service providers like Verizon, T-Mobile, AT&T and US Cellular. What is cellular internet? Cellular internet uses a router or hotspot to connect to a provider's cellular network, just like your mobile phone. The speed you receive mostly depends on how close you are to a network tower, but other factors like network congestion, how many connected devices you have and the location of your router can interrupt speeds. Most of the time, those cellular internet speeds are a lot slower than what you'd get consistently with fiber or cable, but if your location lacks those alternatives, then a cellular internet setup might be just what you need. Locating local internet providers
Since many big telecommunications companies offer these plans -- and 5G technology promises to make some of them even better -- let's see how they compare in price, speed and other aspects.
Cellular internet providers compared
Provider Monthly priceMax speedsFees and service details AT&T Fixed Wireless Read full review $70 ($60 when bundled with DirecTV or wireless plan)10Mbps download, 1Mbps upload350GB data cap, no equipment fees or contracts AT&T Internet Air Read full review $60 ($47 with an eligible
AT&T wireless plan)90-300Mbps downloads, 8-30Mbps uploadsNo equipment fees, overage fees or contracts T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Read full review $50-$70 ($35-$55 for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max mobile customers)87-415Mbps downloads, 12-56 uploadsNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts US Cellular
$5050-220Mbps downloads, 15-50Mbps uploadsNo equipment fees, 600-900GB data cap, and 3-year installment contract may apply Verizon 4G LTE
Read full review $50-$70 ($35-$55 with an eligible Verizon mobile plan)25-50Mbps download, 4-5Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts
Verizon 5G Home Internet Read full review $50-$70 ($35-$55 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans)300-1,000Mbps downloads, 25-75Mbps uploadsNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts
Show more (2 items)
Shop providers at my address
Verizon LTE Home Internet
Verizon continues to expand its cellular home internet services. Screenshot by Eli Blumenthal/CNETVerizon LTE is meant for households that don't have access to the provider's other home internet services, like Verizon Fios. You'll connect to Verizon's 4G LTE network, with download speeds of 25 to 50 megabits per second and upload speeds of up to 5Mbps. That's roughly on par with DSL speeds and fast enough for basic web usage, HD streaming and light online gaming. Like the rest of Verizon's home internet offerings, Verizon LTE has no data caps. Locating local internet providers
Pricing for Verizon's LTE service depends on whether you already have cellular service with Verizon. If you have an eligible Verizon mobile plan (and enroll in autopay and paperless billing), then LTE residential internet service will cost you $35 to $55 monthly. However, that goes up to $50 to $70 per month if you don't have an existing Verizon mobile plan, which places Verizon LTE on par with what cable internet providers charge for service. In addition, the LTE plan comes with a Wi-Fi 6 router, and customers can enjoy the rate for three years. However, if cable ISPs such as Spectrum and Xfinity are available in your area, they are likely to offer a faster connection at the same price compared to Verizon's LTE network.Verizon LTE is available to over 99% of the US population, but plug in your address to see if your home is serviceable. Verizon 5G Home InternetVerizon 5G Home Internet is the company's more recent home internet offering and it promises a dramatic speed boost thanks to Verizon's 5G Ultra Wideband technology. After launching in 2022, Verizon expanded to over 900 markets. Since then, Verizon's 5G home internet has expanded its customer reach, ending the first quarter of 2025 with a total of 4.8 million fixed wireless customers, not far from their projected goal of 8 million fixed wireless customers by 2028. As for speeds, Verizon 5G Home downloads top out at 1Gbps, or 1,000Mbps, with average speeds at around 300Mbps. Uploads remain more modest, topping out at 75Mbps. 5G Home is $50 per month (with a price guarantee of up to five years for a limited time only) or $70 per month for 5G Home Plus. Customers can get $15-$25 off either tier if they subscribe to select 5G mobile plans. No annual contract is required, all equipment is included in the monthly price and there are no data caps. To entice potential customers, Verizon always has a slew of additional perks, such as an Amazon Gift card and a free YouTube Premium subscription for six months.T-Mobile 5G Home Internet
T-Mobile's Home Internet gateway serves as modem and router, though you can also plug in an existing router or mesh network. Rick Broida/CNETT-Mobile introduced new plans, giving customers a boost in speeds. The 5G plans are priced from $50 to $70 a month with maximum download speeds of 415Mbps and upload speeds at 56Mbps. You can also shave off $15 from your monthly bill if you bundle your internet with an eligible mobile plan. The 4G LTE plans are also available and peak at 100Mbps. However, speeds will vary based on your location. One of the best aspects of the service is that everything is included in the price. Your Wi-Fi equipment comes with no rental fees, data caps or annual service contracts. The only fee you should expect is the $35 activation fee. T-Mobile's home internet service now has over 6.8 million customers, per the company's latest earnings report. Over the past few years, the company has aggressively expanded to serve more rural communities. A year after its launch, T-Mobile announced that it had expanded to over 40 million households using its 5G and 4G LTE networks. The service is still fairly new, and T-Mobile aims to keep pushing its expansion in varied ways. CNET's own
Amanda Kooser tried T-Mobile 5G Home Internet and noted the decent prices and superior service compared to DSL. Back in 2022, one of our other experts,Eli Blumenthal tried T-Mobile 5G Home Internet out for himself and noted the lower latency compared to Verizon's 5G Home Internet, though Blumenthal ultimately decided to switch back to Spectrum Internet. T-Mobile is encouraging such trials with its Network Pass, allowing new customers to try out three months of service for free.AT&T Fixed Wireless In addition to its fiber and DSL internet plans, AT&T offers fixed wireless internet service to rural communities. You set it up by installing an antenna outside your home with a clear view of the sky. It'll connect over the air with an AT&T access point somewhere near you and pipe the signal to your router, allowing you to receive download speeds of approximately 10Mbps and upload speeds of around 1Mbps. There are a few limitations to consider with AT&T's fixed wireless service. First, know that AT&T caps data at 350GB per month. That's different from T-Mobile Home Internet and Verizon 5G Home, which feature unlimited data. Such a data cap might also prove tight for some, as OpenVault's latest report shows that the average American household uses around 663GB of data monthly. The company will charge $10 for every 50GB of data you use over the cap, up to $200 in additional fees.
Joe Supan / CNETAT&T Internet AirAT&T rolled out its 5G home internet service as an alternative to its DSL and fixed wireless internet offerings in 2023. Compared to the coverage boasted by T-Mobile Home Internet and Verizon 5G Home Internet, AT&T Internet Air has some catching up to do before it becomes a widely available internet option. For $60 a month, you can get download speeds between 90 and 300Mbps and upload speeds between 8 and 30Mbps. If you bundle your AT&T mobile plan with the 5G internet service, you'll get 20% off that price, or $47 a month. Since the speeds are pretty close to what you'd get with T-Mobile Home Internet, AT&T Internet Air is a viable competitor. AT&T Internet Air offers many of the same perks as its competitors, including hassle-free terms of service like no contracts, free installation, free equipment and no overage fees. AT&T Internet Air technically comes with unlimited data, but only in the sense that you won't get charged overage fees; users may have slowed speeds during congested periods. US CellularIf you live within the US Cellular coverage area, you could sign up for fixed wireless service with hardware that connects your router with the nearest cell tower to bring your home network online. The provider offers two high-speed internet plans, starting at $50 monthly. The Home Internet Everywhere advanced plan comes with 600GB of data. You can upgrade to the premium plan for more data at the same price. Though speeds will vary depending on your address, the fixed wireless plans can deliver speeds up to 220Mbps in downloads and 90Mbps in uploads, as written on the provider's broadband labels. That said, it offers faster speeds than AT&T's fixed wireless options. Also, US Cellular doesn't impose data overage charges. However, the company can throttle your connection to approximately 2Mbps once you use up your data allotment. That means your network speeds could come crashing down in the middle of your billing cycle if your web activity consumes too much bandwidth.How to make the most of your cellular internetRegardless of your chosen carrier, your router placement can be crucial in optimizing speeds, as a former CNET writer discovered when he tested T-Mobile Home Internet. You want to place it in a clear area, away from obstacles like bookcases, furniture and walls. If you have a home with multiple stories, you could also buy Wi-Fi extenders. These strengthen the signal in potential dead zones in your home. It's also important to take your regular internet usage into account. Understanding how much speed you should be paying for and how to manage your monthly data cap allows you to choose the most appropriate plan and avoid throttled speeds and or additional fees.Cellular Home Internet FAQ
What is cellular internet?
Cellular internet uses a router or hotspot to connect to an internet provider's cellular network. ISPs like Verizon, T-Mobile, AT&T and US Cellular offer cellular internet connections through 4G and 5G networks. Unlike fiber or cable connections, cellular connections have much slower speeds. Many factors can also impact the actual speeds you get, such as how far you are from the network tower and how many connected devices are in your household.
How does cellular internet work?
Cellular home internet uses a modem or gateway device (a combination of a modem and router) to connect to a provider's cellular network. It's the same as how your phone connects to the internet, except that your home internet is fixed, whereas your phone is mobile. When you use cellular internet as your home broadband connection, the speeds you get will depend on your proximity to a network tower, and you'll also be more susceptible to factors like network congestion and deprioritization.
Which internet provider offers the best cellular internet?
It will all come down to what's available at your address. T-Mobile Home Internet has the furthest reach, available to over 50 million households. According to the latest ASCI report, for the first time ever, T-Mobile matched AT&T Fiber in customer satisfaction score. The 2024 J.D. Power survey highlights the potential reason behind the rise in popularity of cellular internet, and it's that more home internet users are prioritizing affordability over speed.
Verizon 5G Home Internet is not far behind in customer reach, its available to over 40 million households in the US. Customers can expect Verizon 5G speeds to max out at 1,000Mbps and average around 300Mbps. That's faster than T-Mobile's 5G offering, which peaks at 415Mbps. Verizon also offers LTE plans, which feature download speeds of 25 to 50Mbps and upload speeds of up to 5Mbps. But in that case, you're better off looking into T-Mobile or US Cellular.
How can I optimize my cellular internet connection?
Though you might not get the fastest speeds with a cellular internet connection, you can still optimize your connection with a few steps. For instance, router placement is crucial. If you live in a multistory home, utilizing a Wi-Fi extender can help strengthen the signal throughout your home. Overall, understanding how much speed your household consumes and how to manage your data use can help you avoid paying additional fees.
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.