Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global? | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Portfolios
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global?
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global?
Plus: 4 top-rated global 60/40 funds to consider.
Jason Kephart
and
Susan Dziubinski
Sep 18, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Vanguard Balanced Index Inv
(VBINX)
American Funds Global Balanced F3
(GFBLX)
Vanguard LifeStrategy Mod Gr Inv Shrs
(VSMGX)
BlackRock Global Allocation Instl
(MALOX)
T. Rowe Price Global Allocation I
(TGAFX)
After years of lagging behind US stocks, international equities are enjoying a long-overdue revival in 2025: The Morningstar Global Markets ex-US Index is up 25% for the year to date through Sept. 12 while US stocks, represented by the Morningstar US Market Index, are up about 13%. The rally in international stocks may leave 60/40 investors wondering what benefits a global 60/40 portfolio might provide versus a US-only one today. Jason Kephart, who’s a senior principal with Morningstar’s multi-asset ratings team, discusses the case for adding international stocks to a 60/40 portfolio.Susan Dziubinski: What are some of the factors driving the performance of international stocks this year?Jason Kephart: It’s hard to point to just one factor driving global markets, but a few dynamics have supported international stocks this year. A key driver has been the decline in the US dollar. The ICE USD Spot Index, which measures the dollar against a basket of currencies, has fallen about 10% through August. We also saw US markets face a sharp selloff earlier in the year amid uncertainty over tariffs. International stocks were less impacted, thanks in part to their lower starting valuations and strong corporate earnings.More From Morningstar Why 2025 Is the Year to Invest in International Stocks Non-US stocks are outperforming this year, but there are both tactical and strategic reasons to buy international equities today. Dziubinski: What impact is the rally in international stocks having on 60/40 portfolios that have some exposure to international stocks versus US-only 60/40 portfolios? Kephart: As you might expect, more globally diversified 60/40 portfolios are winning for the first time in a long time. One easy way to gauge the performance of US-only versus globally diversified balanced funds is to use Vanguard Balanced Index VBINX and Vanguard LifeStrategy Moderate Growth VSMGX as proxies. The former is 100% US stocks and bonds and the latter has about 25% in non-US stocks and 10% in non-US bonds. Through Sept. 12, Balanced Index has gained 10.5% and its LifeStrategy sibling has gained 12.7%. This year could be the first time since 2017 that LifeStrategy has outperformed Balanced Index.Dziubinski: Even when you take this year’s rally into account, international stocks have a long way to go before they catch up to the trailing returns of US stocks during the past decade. Given that, is there a tactical case to be made for a global 60/40 portfolio today rather than a US-only 60/40 investment?Kephart: Tactical allocation is very hard to get right, and most professional portfolio managers we see attempt it don’t succeed. We wouldn’t recommend trying to time any shorter-term market moves, but if you’re a US-only 60/40 investor and you’re worried about FOMO from international stocks, adding some international stocks for the long haul could make sense.Dziubinski: What about diversification, Jason? Do international stocks diversify the standard US 60/40 portfolio in a meaningful way? In other words, do they improve risk-adjusted results? Kephart: Our colleagues Christine Benz and Amy Arnott looked at that in their most recent Diversification Landscape. From a pure diversification standpoint, international stocks have behaved more similarly to US stocks in recent years, if we’re just using correlations. But as we’ve seen this year and for a long stretch from 2000 to 2009, that doesn’t mean they can’t also add value by delivering higher returns. It is possible that geopolitical uncertainty could create more dispersion between US and non-US stocks going forward.More from Morningstar The 60/40 Portfolio: A 150-Year Markets Stress Test
How Does Your 60/40 Portfolio Allocation Compare With the Pros?
Dziubinski: Emerging-market stocks tend to have lower correlations with US stocks. Should a 60/40 investor consider adding emerging-market stocks into the mix in addition to developed-market non-US stocks? What are the pros and cons of doing so?Kephart: Emerging markets make up about 10% of the global stock market, so they should be on investors’ radar when considering international investments.Dziubinski: Let’s talk about 60/40 funds that diversify globally. What percentage of the portfolio, in general, do these global 60/40 funds dedicate to international versus US stocks? Kephart: They tend to be benchmarked to a global stock market index, like the MSCI ACWI. In that index, US stocks make up about 65%. Within the stock sleeve of global 60/40 portfolios, that translates to about 20%. In general, I’d say we see between 15% to 25% for more actively managed global balanced funds.Dziubinski: Do most engage in currency hedging?Kephart: Not on the stock side, but we do tend to see currency hedging when it comes to international bonds. For bonds, the currency can drive a lot of volatility, so hedging those back to the US dollar helps them behave more like the boring bonds you want to use to protect against stock market swoons.
This Classic Investment Strategy Is Still Alive in 2025
A look at the 60/40 portfolio performance this year and whether another strategy is better.
13m 31s
Aug 21, 2025
Watch
Dziubinski: Talk about a few of the global 60/40 funds that Morningstar thinks most highly of.Kephart: One of our top picks is Vanguard LifeStrategy Moderate Growth, which we mentioned earlier. It carries a Silver Morningstar Medalist Rating, and, true to Vanguard’s style, it’s broadly diversified and low-cost. For investors seeking a more active approach, we also like BlackRock Global Allocation MALOX, T. Rowe Price Global Allocation TGAFX, and American Funds Global Balanced GFBLX. Each is managed by an experienced team with a disciplined process for selecting stocks and bonds and building well-diversified portfolios.Dziubinski: What would you suggest for investors who may already own a 60/40 fund—can they just bolt-on an international fund? And if yes, in what proportion?Kephart: You always need to be cautious with bolt-ons. If it’s a straightforward, market-cap-weighted ETF that tracks something like the MSCI EAFE or MSCI Emerging Markets index, that’s usually fine. But the more active the strategy, or the more active your overall portfolio, the more you need to be careful. In those cases, you risk layering in redundant exposures or overlapping styles that can actually reduce diversification rather than improve your portfolio.Dziubinski: The media talks a lot about investments that investors should add to their 60/40 portfolios—things like cryptocurrencies and private market investments. Where do international stocks rank when it comes to things that can meaningfully add resilience to a 60/40 portfolio over time?Kephart: International stocks may not be as hip as digital assets and private markets right now, but they are an important part of your investing toolkit. As we’ve seen this year, US stocks won’t always outperform, and having low-cost diversified exposure to companies outside the US can help smooth out those periods.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Portfolios
View All
How to Use Large-Cap Stocks in a Portfolio
A look at the benefits and risks of these investments, plus our favorite options.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA and Margaret Giles Sep 15, 2025
The Key to a Winning 401(k) Private markets aren’t necessary, but smart savings habits are.
Jason Kephart, Spencer Look, and Samantha Lamas Sep 11, 2025
The Age When Your Retirement Portfolio Should Shift Gears Don’t wait until retirement to start incorporating safer assets into your investment portfolio.
Christine Benz and Susan Dziubinski Sep 9, 2025
About the Authors
View All Authors
Jason Kephart Senior Principal
More from Author
Jason Kephart, CFA, is a senior principal, multi-asset strategy ratings, for Morningstar.
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global?
Jason Kephart Sep 18, 2025
The Key to a Winning 401(k)
Jason Kephart Sep 11, 2025
Ask Your Advisor These Questions Before Investing in Derivative Income ETFs
Jason Kephart Sep 4, 2025
5 Things You Need to Know About Interval Fund Fees
Jason Kephart Aug 28, 2025
3 Liquid Alternative Funds That Bring the Defense
Jason Kephart Aug 21, 2025
Which Vanguard Balanced Fund Is Right for You?
Jason Kephart Aug 14, 2025
Active ETFs Are a Top Choice for Model Portfolio Providers
Jason Kephart Jul 31, 2025
These 10 Firms Are Making Semiliquid Funds a Big Deal
Jason Kephart Jul 24, 2025
The Best Allocation Model Portfolios
Jason Kephart Jul 17, 2025
2 New and Notable Model Portfolios
Jason Kephart Jul 10, 2025
Susan Dziubinski Investment Specialist
More from Author
Susan Dziubinski is an investment specialist for Morningstar and co-host of The Morning Filter podcast. Email Susan at susan.dziubinski@morningstar.com.
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global?
Jason Kephart Sep 18, 2025
The Best REIT ETFs to Buy
Susan Dziubinski Sep 16, 2025
4 Must-Own Dividend-Growth Stocks
Susan Dziubinski Sep 16, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off
David Sekera, CFA Sep 15, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before the Fed Cuts Interest Rates
David Sekera, CFA Sep 9, 2025
The 10 Best Dividend Stocks
Susan Dziubinski Sep 9, 2025
The Best Bond Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 9, 2025
The Age When Your Retirement Portfolio Should Shift Gears
Christine Benz Sep 9, 2025
Ask Your Advisor These Questions Before Investing in Derivative Income ETFs
Jason Kephart Sep 4, 2025
The Best Dividend Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 3, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility