6 settings I tweaked on my NAS that instantly made it faster
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
6 settings I tweaked on my NAS that instantly made it faster
By
Karandeep Singh
Published 14 hours ago
I am a Senior Author at XDA with a decade of experience covering consumer tech. I care more about the impact of technology on people’s everyday lives than the superfluous features companies keep adding each year, which is central to my reviews and product recommendations.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
When it comes to your NAS’s speed, adding new or upgrading existing hardware is a solid option. But sometimes, you don’t have to go that far. You can easily get by making some tweaks on the software side and make a much bigger difference on your system. The idea is to iron out any minor inefficiencies — when you identify and fix a lot of them, it all adds up, and your NAS starts feeling as fast as the day you first set it up. These are the changes that gave me a noticeable speed boost almost instantly, and you should try them too before dropping cash on new hardware.
Enable SSD cache
Want to see your NAS fly?
The single most noticeable change came from adding a small SSD as a cache drive — and no, I didn’t buy myself a new one. I had a spare NVMe drive lying around from my desktop, and I repurposed it to make my NAS faster. How it helped me was by loading the transfers onto the faster SSD first, before placing them in the correct location on the slower HDDs. This way, you can make your file transfers much snappier, especially for frequently accessed things, in real time. And the good thing is that the cache size doesn’t need to be massive. If you even have a 120GB drive lying around, it would be good enough to begin with and feel the difference.
Switch to a different file system
Find what’s suitable
Not all file systems are made equally, and they are perhaps the most ignored part of the NAS as well. I was previously running the default EXT4 file system, which worked fine, but it’s outdated by modern standards and should be considered obsolete now. I compared some alternatives and switched to Btrfs, which was quite a step up. While the difference wasn’t day and night, transfers were completed noticeably faster, and the system started to handle multitasking better. Of course, what worked for me won’t necessarily work for you, too, but it’s fair to assume that the default isn’t always right. Try out what works best for you and jump ship if you need to.
Schedule your backups
Off-hours are meant for that
An avoidable bottleneck happens when you’ve got too many tasks running during your peak hours. When you’re trying to access that important work file, the system decides to run a backup at that very moment, ruining the speed of your main task. While the NAS itself isn’t technically slow, it does give the perception that it is. A good measure that doesn’t require buying new hardware is to schedule your backups for later on, when you aren’t using the system actively. That’s when the resources would be free to handle the heavy lifting without bringing your NAS to a standstill.
Turn off indexing
And thumbnail generation
System logs showed that the NAS was using too many resources in the background. The reason I came across this issue was that the NAS was busy indexing my thousands of media files and generating thumbnails, instead of freeing up the CPU and RAM resources for tasks that actually mattered. Indexing and thumbnailing are neat features, but I don’t want them eating up precious resources. If you don’t need them at all, you would be much better off disabling these options (if your NAS OS lets you) for a general speed boost. What I often do now is dump my media onto the NAS only on the weekends, giving it ample time to properly index everything.
Change RAID configuration
Smart safety
RAID is perhaps the most important data safety feature that you must enable the moment you set up your NAS for the first time. But what’s more important is that you get the configuration right. You have to find a balance between speed and redundancy. One of my systems has RAID 1, which mirrors the data, but leaves only half the storage for my use. My other system had RAID 6 from the beginning, but it turned out to be seriously slow on writes. Thankfully, that NAS was something I could experiment with, so I switched to RAID 10, which turned out to be better for speed while still giving me peace of mind. Make sure to take the call well in advance, as switching RAID configurations later on can become a task.
Enable link aggregation
Your network determines speed
You can install the fastest NAS drives available on the market, but you will still feel they are slow if your local network is slow. Often, it’s the network that’s proving to be a bottleneck, limiting speeds for all your client devices. While there are several much more expensive fixes, you should start by enabling link aggregation on your system. It is important that your router (and network switch) and your NAS support link aggregation for it to work. Using it, you can connect two LAN cables between your NAS and the router for double the bandwidth. It won’t double the speed for each client device, but it will allow multiple client devices to move files without stepping on each other’s toes.
The drives don’t matter as much
When we speak of NAS speed, it often comes down to the drives themselves, but that’s rarely the case. A lot of factors can make or break the experience — sure, the drives are one of them, but there are far more critical aspects about a NAS that can affect its speed, from the network to the stress you’re putting it under. So, before you take up the tremulous task of upgrading all your drives, you should give these a try first. I’m sure this is going to save you tons of cash.
Source: Amazon
TerraMaster F4-424 Max
9/10
CPU
Intel Core i5-1235U
Memory
8GB DDR5 non-ECC SODIMM (up to 64GB)
Drive Bays
4 HDD bays + 2 NVMe SSD slots
Ports
2x USB Type-A (10Gbps), 1x USB Type-C (10Gbps), 1x HDMI 2.0, 2x 10GbE RJ45
The TerraMaster F4-424 Max is a premium hybrid NAS enclosure that combines a solid Intel Core i5-1235U processor with ultra-fast 10GbE ports and ample storage capacity. It also supports up to 64GB RAM and is as amazing for home lab workloads as it is for storing your precious data,
$900 at Amazon
$900 at TerraMaster
Expand
Collapse
Home Lab
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
I didn't expect these PowerToys features to be this useful for graphics work
1 day ago
3 reasons a Dev Drive might be the perfect addition to your Windows install
2 days ago
Winux is a Linux distro that looks like Windows 11, but that's not a good thing
3 days ago
3 reasons why I pay a lot of attention to the RAM when buying or building a NAS
Today's best deals
Score this Cooler Master wireless mechanical keyboard for 49% off and add a splash of color to your workspace
3 hours ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
15 hours ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
4 reasons I keep coming back to Obsidian
7 ways I realized my NAS was better than Dropbox for work files
I replaced Windows clipboard with this micro-productivity tool, and I’m not going back
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.