How to watch YouTube TV from anywhere with a VPN
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Team-Wide VMware Certification: Your Secret Weapon for Security
Jaguar Land Rover extends shutdown after cyberattack by another week
Apple backports zero-day patches to older iPhones and iPads
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeVPNsGuidesHow to watch YouTube TV from anywhere with a VPN
We are reader supported and may receive a commission if you buy using links on this page
How to watch YouTube TV from anywhere with a VPN
By James Milin-Ashmore - Cybersecurity & VPN Expert
June 2, 2025
06:11 AM
0
A VPN will allow you to access YouTube TV from anywhere in the world, allowing the user to watch live TV from 100+ channels. Here’s what you need to know.
If you’re not in the United States, you’ll find that YouTube TV is geo-blocked. In other words, you’ll only be able to watch YouTube TV content while you’re in the country. If you try to sign in or sign up from abroad, you’ll see the following error message: “It looks like you're outside of the United States. YouTube TV is only available in the US.”
However, you will be able to watch YouTube TV from abroad by using a VPN. It works by assigning the user a temporary IP address depending on the server location you’ve selected. By connecting to a server in the United States, the user will be able to access YouTube TV while on vacation or business abroad.
As well as the ability to access various international streaming services, a VPN is great for hassle-free online banking from abroad. You’ll be able to use the internet with improved privacy, blocking trackers, your ISP, or even the government from keeping tabs on what you’re up to.
How to stream YouTube TV abroad with a VPN
Despite lots of technical jargon, most VPNs are reasonably easy to set up and use. As you’ll be attempting to bypass blocks to access YouTube TV, you’ll need to connect to a US server location.
Here’s a step-by-step guide to watch YouTube TV with a VPN:
Sign up with a VPN that works with YouTube TV. We recommend NordVPN.
Download and install the VPN app. Most providers support iOS, Android, macOS, and Windows devices.
Sign in to the VPN app, and connect to a server located in the United States.
Open YouTube TV. You’ll need to make an account if you haven’t done so already. This requires a payment method that is linked to a US-based address.
Once you’ve signed in, you’ll be free to watch YouTube TV from anywhere in the world.
We'll review our recommended VPN providers for the job in detail below. However, if you're in a rush, here’s a brief roundup of our top VPNs for streaming YouTube TV from anywhere.
Best VPNs for watching YouTube TV:
NordVPN: Our top pick for YouTube TV. High speeds from US servers, excellent streaming support, SmartPlay built in by default, NordLynx protocol, and a 30-day risk-free money-back guarantee.
Surfshark: Unlimited device connections, will access YouTube TV and more in the US, various affordable deals, and advanced features include Camouflage and No-Borders Mode.
ExpressVPN: Top speeds and streaming capabilities, one of the best-known providers on the market, and proprietary Lightway protocol.
PrivateVPN: Gives access to YouTube TV and much more despite fewer servers than the competition.
IPVanish: Provider based in Dallas, with a strong emphasis on unblocking services in the US.
CyberGhost VPN: Beginner-friendly provider with 11,500+ servers globally and in the United States that can also be used for P2P.
Summary Table
No value
TEST WINNER
No value
No value
No value
No value
No value
No value
NordVPN
www.nordvpn.com
Surfshark
www.surfshark.com
ExpressVPN
www.expressvpn.com
PrivateVPN
www.privatevpn.com
IPVanish
www.ipvanish.com
CyberGhost
www.cyberghost.com
Ranking
1
2
3
4
5
6
Avg Speed (Mbps)
100+ Mbps
100+ Mbps
100+ Mbps
71 Mbps
100+ Mbps
100+ Mbps
Devices Supported
Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, Smart TVs, Routers
Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, Smart TVs, Routers
Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, Smart TVs, Routers
Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android
Amazon Fire TV
Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android
Amazon Fire TV
Windows, MacOS, Linux (command line), iOS, Android,
Amazon Fire TV
Number of Servers
5,400
3,200
3,000
200+
2,000+
9,308+
Simultaneous Connections
6
Unlimited
5
10
Unlimited
7
Best deal (per month)
$3.09Up to 77% OFF + 3 months FREE
$1.9987% off 2yr starter plan + 3 months free!
$3.49Save up to 73% + 4 mo FREE
$2.00SAVE 85% on 3yr plan
$2.19SAVE 83%
$2.19SAVE 82%
We used the following criteria to come up with this list of the best VPNs for watching YouTube TV from anywhere:
Streaming support: Access to YouTube TV, as well as further streaming services in the United States and elsewhere.
Speeds: Fast connection speeds will allow you to stream content in 4K with no buffering.
Apps and usability: Usable apps for a range of popular mobile and desktop devices.
Security: Strong encryption, a selection of protocols to choose from, and additional security features with your VPN connection.
Value for money: Can you get the VPN for a fair price?
To make the top three, we only accept VPNs that tick all of the following boxes:
Providers who have consistently pushed VPN technology forward.
The VPN must not log identifying data on customers and must have had its logging policy audited by a reputable third party (such as PWC). This ensures that VPNs that claim to adhere to certain practices actually do so.
They are based in countries not part of any known intelligence alliance (YouTube TV might be limited to the United States, but the ideal VPN will be located elsewhere).
The VPN provider must operate a 100% diskless server network.
WANT TO TRY THE TOP VPN RISK FREE?
NordVPN is offering a fully-featured
risk-free
30-day trial if you sign up at this page
. You can use the VPN rated #1 with no restrictions for a month - great if you want to binge your favorite show or are going on a short trip.
There are no hidden terms - just contact support within 30 days if you decide NordVPN isn't right for you and you'll get a full refund.
Start your NordVPN trial here
.
The best VPNs for YouTube TV
Here's our list of the best VPNs for YouTube TV:
1. NordVPN
Website: www.nordvpn.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs, Linux
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 7.5/10
Value for Money: 9/10
Streaming: 10/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 10/10
Customer Support: 10/10
NordVPN is one of the more powerful providers on the market, offering access to a collection of popular streaming services in the United States and elsewhere. A collection of 7,800+ servers in 118+ countries is a good spread, with 1,970+ in the US that are found in the following cities:
Atlanta, Buffalo, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, New Jersey, Miami, New York, Phoenix, Salt Lake City, San Francisco, San Jose, Seattle, St. Louis, and Manassas
If you’d prefer, you’ll also be able to get a dedicated IP address in the United States. This is a personal static IP address that will solely belong to you and can be used to access lots of regional services with minimal fuss. A dedicated IP address does come at an additional cost to the basic subscription fee.
The custom NordLynx protocol ensures high speeds while streaming, and SmartPlay is implemented by default in all NordVPN apps. SmartPlay uses Smart DNS to bypass VPN blocking, ensuring your real IP remains hidden. As a consequence, it can access almost any streaming site you can think of.
In the US alone, it works with Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Peacock, HBO Max, ESPN, NBC, ABC, CBS, and Hulu. It's a great choice for streaming sports, offering consistent access with no fuss.
Based in Panama, Nord is audited, and there are apps for Windows, Android, macOS, iOS, and Linux. Also, NordVPN's Meshnet private tunnel feature for Windows, macOS, and Linux is now free for everyone, including users who do not have a subscription to NordVPN. This allows users to create private, encrypted tunnels between devices they trust to pass network traffic.
One downside is that its servers were hacked in 2019, as ​​attackers stole and leaked the private keys associated with certificates used to secure their web servers and VPN configuration files. In response, NordVPN switched to RAM servers.
Pros:
Exceptional connection speeds
NordLynx protocol
A large server network capable of accessing multiple geo-blocked services
Audited no logs policy
Advanced features like SmartPlay and Meshnet
Diskless infrastructure
Cons:
Can take a bit of time to switch servers
Lacks port forwarding
BEST VPN FOR YOUTUBE TV: NordVPN will handle streaming YouTube TV from abroad without breaking a sweat. Heaps of additional security features, fully audited service, custom NordLynx protocol, blistering speeds, and a 30-day risk-free money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of NordVPN.
NordVPN Coupon
Up to 77% off 2 year plans + 3 months free
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
2. Surfshark
Website: www.surfshark.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs, Linux
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 7/10
Value for Money: 9/10
Streaming: 10/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 9.8/10
Customer Support: 10/10
Surfshark is a worthwhile alternative, especially if you’re working with a smaller budget. The affordable provider still packs a punch, with a collection of performant apps, and servers in a total of 100+ countries worldwide. You’ll be able to use a single account with unlimited simultaneous devices.
It’s great if you’re hoping to access state-level services (such as regional TV broadcasts), as Surfshark provides servers in 24+ US cities. Of course, this means that there are multiple options on the East and West coasts, so you should always be able to find a speedier server that is closer to you physically.
In terms of streaming, Surfshark works with platforms like Netflix US, BBC iPlayer, and Amazon Prime, and there’s a free Smart DNS service given away with every subscription. Here are some of the services we tested with Surfshark:
Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, BBC iPlayer, ITV Hub, All 4, Sky Go, BT Sport, Hotstar, Disney+, HBO Max, YouTube TV, Sling TV, DirecTV Stream, ABC, Peacock, and CBS
Connection speeds are also impressive, especially from US locations like New York. For example, an average speed of 205 Mbps is much faster than the 20 Mbps minimum recommended for streaming 4K content.
Nord Security and Surfshark announced a merger in February 2022, promising to operate as separate VPN infrastructures.
Pros:
Private search engine
Audited zero logs policy
Advanced features including an IP rotator
Ideal for streaming YouTube TV
RAM-only servers
Cons:
Lacks port forwarding
No dedicated IPs, either in the US or elsewhere
GREAT FOR BUDGET US STREAMING: Surfshark has 24+ US server locations to choose from that work with YouTube TV. Smart DNS, advanced features, and affordable deals. Comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of Surfshark.
Surfshark Coupon
Get 3 Months FREE with a 2-year plan
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
3. ExpressVPN
Website: www.expressvpn.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs, Linux
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 6/10
Value for Money: 6/10
Streaming: 9/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 9.5/10
Customer Support: 6/10
ExpressVPN is a premium service with high-speed servers in 24+ locations in the US, all of which are compatible with the proprietary Lightway protocol. Lightway is designed to be more performant, uses less battery, and is easier to audit and maintain compared to the likes of OpenVPN.
One of the best picks for streaming, it’s hard to think of many services that ExpressVPN can’t unblock. It works with roughly 24 Netflix catalogs, and accessed Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, Crunchyroll, Sky TV, YouTube, ITV Hub, Disney+, Paramount+, and HBO Max during testing.
MediaStreamer is a free Smart DNS add-on that allows the user to spoof their location. It only works to access Netflix US, Hulu, HBO Max, and other American streaming platforms, but it’s great if you want to use the VPN with game consoles, smart TVs, routers, or any other devices without traditional app support.
ExpressVPN is also a strong choice for privacy, with a strict no-logging policy, diskless servers, and audits for its policies, infrastructure, and its apps. You'll find high-speed servers to pick from in 105+ countries to access your favorite content.
One major caveat is that Express is one of the most expensive VPNs on the market, even if it doesn’t feel overpriced. Users are limited to eight device connections, which isn’t generous by any means.
Pros:
Easily able to access YouTube TV, and multiple other services
Proprietary Lightway protocol
Diskless servers, fully audited
Functional apps available for all devices
Audited no logs policy
Cons:
The most expensive service on the list
Only eight simultaneous connections
EXPERT STREAMING VPN: ExpressVPN is a high-end service in every sense. Advanced features, fully audited, functional apps, and strong streaming support. Works with YouTube TV, and offers a free Smart DNS service. 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of ExpressVPN.
ExpressVPN Coupon
SAVE: 73% on the 2 year basic plan + 4 months free!
Get Deal >
Coupon applied automatically
4. PrivateVPN
Website: www.privatevpn.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 4/10
Value for Money: 9/10
Streaming: 8/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 8/10
Customer Support: 9.4/10
PrivateVPN works with a variety of popular streaming services, including YouTube TV.
You’ll find US locations in Atlanta, Buffalo, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Phoenix, and Seattle, so there’s a healthy selection of cities to pick from.
The Swedish provider allows for 10 simultaneous connections, and it doesn’t rent servers from third parties. Speeds are quick enough for streaming in 4K thanks to WireGuard, but an average of 50 Mbps in the US isn’t the fastest result by any means.
Notable features include port forwarding, and the ability to set up the provider remotely with help from support staff. Obfuscation (Stealth VPN) helps to hide VPN usage from your ISP, but PrivateVPN does lack a few advanced options like MultiHop and Smart DNS.
Pros:
High speeds for streaming YouTube TV
Port forwarding
Works with various popular streaming services
Servers in 12+ US cities
Cons:
Fewer servers overall
Lacks split tunneling and some advanced features
BARE-METAL STREAMING SERVERS: PrivateVPN is great for streaming and torrenting, with multiple US server locations to choose from. Comes with port forwarding, bare-metal servers, and a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of PrivateVPN.
PrivateVPN Coupon
SAVE 85% on the three year plan
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
5. IPVanish
Website: www.ipvanish.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 8/10
Value for Money: 8/10
Streaming: 6/10
Ease of use: 9.5/10
Privacy: 8/10
Customer Support: 6/10
IPVanish is based in Dallas, so there’s a large collection of US-based servers that are perfect for accessing streaming services in the country. With 1,020+ servers in 20+ US locations to choose from, it should be easy to bypass any regional blackouts, and it’s a superb pick for the United States.
In terms of US streaming platforms, it worked with HBO Max, Prime Video USA, Disney+, CBS, and NBC during testing, but failed to unblock Hulu or ABC. IPVanish isn’t the best choice for international streams, but it works well with most American options like YouTube TV.
There are some disadvantages to being based in the United States: the shadow of the NSA, the prospect of warrants and gag orders, and the infamous Five Eyes surveillance agreement. Check out the top three if you’d prefer a VPN based outside of Europe or America.
On the plus side, US servers recorded average speeds of 307 Mbps, making IPVanish one of the fastest providers on the market. Plus, it allows you to connect an unlimited number of devices at the same time.
Pros:
Exceptional speeds from US server locations
20+ locations in the United States for bypassing any regional blocks
Provides a SOCKS5 proxy
Scramble feature for obfuscation
Cons:
Based in the USA
Lacks some notable features
LOTS OF USA COVERAGE: IPVanish offers superb streaming support within the US, backed by average speeds of over 300 Mbps. Beginner-friendly apps, access to YouTube TV, comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of IPVanish.
IPVanish Coupon
SAVE 83% on the 2 year plan
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
6. CyberGhost
Website: www.cyberghost.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android
Money Back Guarantee: 45 days
Speed: 9/10
Value for Money: 10/10
Streaming: 8/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 9/10
Customer Support: 9/10
CyberGhost VPN openly advertises that it is able to access YouTube TV from abroad. Boasting one of the largest networks altogether, it includes over 1,300 servers in the US alone, located in 11+ cities coast to coast (Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Las Vegas, Miami, New York, Phoenix, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington).
It’s a great choice for streaming, with servers specifically designed for Netflix US, YouTube, YouTube TV, Amazon Prime Video, HBO Max, Hulu, NBC, Fox, Sling TV, Comedy Central, Crunchyroll, Peacock, Disney+, and Paramount+. It also works with ESPN+ and NFL+, so it is a good choice for streaming sports.
As with NordVPN, you’ll be able to get a dedicated IP address, and it can be used with up to seven simultaneous devices. Average speeds of 392 Mbps from CyberGhost’s US servers make it one of the fastest providers on the market.
Once again, being based in the United States isn’t ideal, especially if you’re also aiming to improve online privacy while accessing YouTube TV. However, the service was independently audited by Deloitte Romania in September 2022.
Pros:
Over 1,300 servers in the United States alone
Dedicated USA IP address
Affordable deals
Includes ad blocking and malware filtering
Cons:
USA headquarters
Shorter guarantee for monthly subscriptions
1,300+ USA SERVERS: CyberGhost is a dependable provider with over 1,300 US servers that can unblock YouTube TV and more. Seven simultaneous devices, fast speeds, and 14-day or 45-day money-back guarantees.
Read our full review of CyberGhost.
CyberGhost Coupon
SAVE 82% on the 2 year plan + 2 months Free!
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
VPN service for YouTube TV testing methodology
As you can see, using a VPN can solve many of your problems when it comes to watching YouTube TV while traveling abroad. However, this is only the case if you choose the right provider. That's why we evaluated all of the providers using our VPN testing methodology, so you can make an informed decision about the VPN that's right for you. We considered the following criteria:
Streaming: The most obvious place to start would be the ability to access YouTube TV from abroad. It’s also worth factoring in additional streaming services, such as US Netflix, BBC iPlayer, Hulu, and more. We’ve predominantly focused on the United States in this instance.
Speeds: YouTube TV is one of the few platforms to allow for streaming in 4K (with a 4K Plus subscription). The VPN must offer speedy connections from US servers.
Apps and usability: At the very least, we expect apps for iOS, Android, Windows, and macOS. Ideally, the VPN will offer support for a range of streaming devices compatible with YouTube TV.
Security: The provider must support powerful encryption and additional security features.
Customer support: We check out the quality of customer service, including live chat and email support.
Bonus points
As well as the criteria above, our top three VPN companies provide all of the following:
Providers who have consistently pushed VPN technology forward. NordVPN and ExpressVPN bucked industry trends by creating their own unique connection protocols, while Surfshark was one of the first (along with CyberGhost) to offer tools like antivirus software and ad-blocking directly in its apps.
Here are some of the more unique features each of our top picks has to offer:
NordVPN: Tor over VPN servers and MeshNet for creating secure point-to-point connections
Surfshark: A GUI for Linux, private search engine, and rotating IP addresses
ExpressVPN: A custom app for routers and parallel connection technology for faster access
The VPN must not log identifying data on customers and must have had its logging policy audited by a reputable third party (such as PWC). This ensures that VPNs that claim to adhere to certain practices actually do so. The VPN must have undergone a technical security audit by a third party. As opposed to a logging policy audit, this tests the security of the VPN product itself.
They are based in countries not part of any known intelligence alliance. YouTube TV might be limited to the United States, but the ideal VPN will be located elsewhere. A huge number of countries share intelligence amongst themselves. The best known-such alliance is The 14 Eyes (officially called SIGINT Seniors Europe, or SSEUR) which includes the UK, USA, Germany, France, Spain, and nine others, though other alliances (such as Maximator and the Afghanistan SIGINT Coalition) also exist, and it’s likely there are more partnerships that we are not aware of.
Diskless infrastructure is another must to make it in our top three providers. While the data stored on a VPN server should be minimal, it could, theoretically, be accessed if the servers were seized or hacked. Moving processes to RAM means that no information can be physically taken from servers and it is wiped on shutdown. It can also easily be wiped as part of regular security procedures.
Can I sign up for YouTube TV from abroad?
Signing up for YouTube TV from abroad presents challenges due to geographical restrictions on the service. Even if you are a US national temporarily located overseas, attempting to sign up with the correct details will often result in an error message. This is due to Oregon locks that are imposed to ensure that only users inside the US can stream premium YouTube TV content.
The best solution to this problem is to use one of the VPNs in this guide. By connecting to a VPN server located in the United States, you can conceal your actual location, making it appear as though you are accessing the service from within the US. This enables you to sign up or log in to YouTube TV as if you were physically present in the United States.
The only caveat is that if you don't already have an account, you may need a valid US payment method to sign up. YouTube TV's payment processing system may not accept non-US credit, debit card, or a PayPal account that is linked to a US address. If you have access to these payment methods, you can easily subscribe to YouTube TV from abroad with a VPN.
For those without US-based payment options, certain virtual card services may offer a solution. Virtual prepaid cards or virtual debit cards, for instance, can provide you with a virtual US-based payment method that may be accepted by YouTube TV's payment system.
Alternatively, you can explore the option of YouTube TV gift cards. These gift cards can be purchased from reputable sources and can be redeemed online to get an account without needing to provide your payment information to YouTube TV.
What can I watch on YouTube TV?
YouTube TV contains content from a number of popular major US networks, including ABC, CBS, NBC, ESPN, AMC, HGTV, and TNT. The Spanish Plan offers access to 30+ extra channels such as ESPN Deportes and Univision.
There are currently over 100 channels offered by YouTube TV that may differ depending on your ZIP code.
YouTube TV VPN: FAQs
Can I download content on YouTube TV?
Yes, depending on the YouTube TV plan you’ve signed up with. The 4K Plus add-on allows users to view recordings offline using either a phone or tablet.
Will a free VPN work with YouTube TV?
It’s unlikely that you’ll be able to find a free provider that has what it takes to access YouTube TV with no issues. There are numerous ‘free VPNs’ with a few servers in the United States, but these will probably have already been blocked by most streaming platforms.
Many free VPNs cap connection speeds or bandwidth. Others, like Atlas VPN, don’t allow freemium users access to streaming sites in the first place without paying a fee.
Free VPNs are also inadvisable when it comes to privacy and online security. Some lack the ability to encrypt user data in the first place, and there’s always a chance that the service will sell your data to third parties without your knowledge.
How does YouTube know I'm using a VPN?
As with many online services, YouTube will block the use of a VPN if it is detected. YouTube does so by checking the IP address used to connect to the service. If it recognizes the VPN IP, the user will be denied access to YouTube TV content.
If you see the message “youtube tv vpn proxy detected”, try switching to a different server, or remove cookies from your device. YouTube TV has likely detected your actual location.
Is it legal to use a VPN with YouTube TV?
Yes, you’re not going to get in trouble for using a VPN with YouTube TV. However, that doesn’t mean that you aren’t violating YouTube’s Terms of Service (after all, content is only supposed to be viewed within the US).
In practice, the chances of the user being blocked by YouTube for using a VPN are low. The same goes for international platforms like BBC iPlayer.
What are YouTube TV location requirements?
YouTube TV might ask you to verify your region or area via your device location permissions. This can be troublesome if you’re using a VPN with a mobile device, so you might have to use a GPS-spoofing app to ensure access with no issues. Otherwise, it might be easier to stick with a desktop device for the best streaming experience.
Will a VPN for YouTube TV cause buffering?
Due to the nature of the encryption process, VPN services will probably reduce speeds to an extent while you’re connected. However, any difference in speeds is likely to be negligible if you’re using a premium provider such as the options we've listed above.
For example, you’ll need a download speed of at least 3 Mbps for YouTube TV, while services like CyberGhost recorded average speeds of 392 Mbps in the United States during testing. This is quick enough for watching a live sports event, whether it's via a US-based server or somewhere else.
Can I access other streaming services with a VPN?
Yes. When you connect to a VPN server back home in America, you get a valid IP address there. This allows you to log in and stream any of your usual services while on vacation. The important thing to remember is that leading American streaming services have already blocked most VPNs like YouTube TV, Hulu, and Netflix. This means that you have to pick your VPN provider carefully.
The VPNs we have recommended in this guide all have US servers that have been tested to access popular streaming services. That said, each service may differ slightly, so you may want to check its individual review – or test it yourself using its money-back guarantee to find out more.
Below, we have included a list of popular US streaming services that you should be able to access with a VPN:
Netflix
Amazon Prime Video
Hulu
Disney+
HBO Max
Apple TV+
Peacock
YouTube TV
Sling TV
CBS All Access (now Paramount+)
ESPN+
NBC
ABC
FOX
The CW
Discovery+
Showtime
Starz
AMC+
Tubi TV
Can I watch YouTube TV at work with a VPN?
Yes. If your employer has blocked YouTube TV, Netflix, Hulu, or any other streaming platform, you can regain access using a VPN. When you connect to a VPN server, you appear to be outside of the work network. This allows you to log in and use your streaming services, social media accounts, games, or anything else that has been blocked by your work's Wi-Fi.
The same is true if you encounter blocks in school, on public WiFi, or anywhere else. A VPN will let you bypass those blocks to regain access to any service that interests you. Best of all, a VPN provides encryption to stop local network administrators from knowing what you do online.
This encryption provides watertight privacy no matter where you use the internet, which allows you to watch YouTube TV or any other service without fear of being found out.
Did you know
The following information is available to any site you visit:
Your IP Address:
Your Location:
Your Internet Provider:
BLEEPINGCOMPUTER RECOMMENDS:
Using a VPN will hide these details and protect your privacy. We recommend using NordVPN - #1 VPN in our tests. It offers outstanding privacy features and is currently available with three months extra free.
Get NordVPN
James Milin-Ashmore
James Milin-Ashmore is a Herts-based writer and journalist who spends too much time watching football and collecting sports cards. He has an interest in ethics and online privacy, and has covered security and, in particular, VPNs since the mid-2010s.
His work on digital privacy has been featured in a range of publications, including the Activist Handbook and Reader's Digest. He's written extensively for publications and services including VPN Mentor, Secure Thoughts, Liquid VPN, and AlwaysVPN.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments have been disabled for this article.
Top VPN Deals
NordVPN
Up to 77% OFF + 3 months FREE
Surfshark
87% off 2yr starter plan + 3 months free!
ExpressVPN
Save up to 73% + 4 mo FREE
Contents
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT