Privateer - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Legal framework and relation to piracy
2
Noted privateers
3
Ships
4
Overall history
Toggle Overall history subsection
4.1
England/Britain
4.2
Bermudians
4.3
Providence Island colony
4.4
Spain and its colonies
4.5
France
4.6
Malta
4.7
United States
4.7.1
British Colonial period
4.7.2
American Revolutionary War
4.7.3
War of 1812
4.7.4
1856 Declaration of Paris
4.7.5
American Civil War
4.8
Latin America
5
See also
6
References
7
Bibliography
8
Further reading
Toggle Further reading subsection
8.1
Primary sources
9
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Privateer
52 languages
العربيةAsturianu閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gíБеларускаяБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתLatinaLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaไทยТыва дылУкраїнська中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Privateer (disambiguation).
Person or ship engaging in maritime warfare under commission
East Indiaman Kent (left) battling Confiance, a privateer commanded by French corsair Robert Surcouf in October 1800, as depicted in a painting by Ambroise Louis Garneray.
Part of a series onWar(outline)
History
Prehistoric
Ancient
Thermal
Gunpowder
Timeline
Post-classical
Castles
Early modern
Military revolution
Pike and shot
Napoleonic warfare
Late modern
Industrial warfare
Fourth-gen warfare
AI warfare
Military
Organzation
Command and control
Defense ministry
Reserves
Ranks
Branches:
Army
Navy
Air force
Marines
Coast guard
Border guard
Special forces
Cyber force
Space force
Specialties:
Staff
Engineers
Intel
Recon
Medical
Police
Diving
Pilot
Land units:
Infantry
Armor
Cavalry
Artillery
Special forces
Signal corps
Naval units:
Warships
Submarines
Aircraft carriers
Landing craft
Auxiliary ships
Air units:
Fighters
Bombers
Command
Close air support
Electronic-warfare
Reconnaissance
Combat systems:
Fire-control system
Fire-control radar
Director (military)
Combat information center
Sonar
Radar
Historical:
Ship gun fire-control
Gun data computer
Torpedo data computer
Development:
Basic training
Military maneuvers
Combat training
Battlespace
Aerospace
Aerial
Airborne
Space
Land
Cold-region
Desert
Fortification
Jungle
Mountain
Urban
Subterranean
Tunnel
Sea
Amphibious
Blue
Brown
Green
Surface
Underwater
Seabed
Cyber
Information
Weapons
Air defense
Armor
Artillery
Barrage
Biological
Camouflage
Cavalry
Horses
Air cavalry
Chemical
Combined arms
Conventional
Cyber
Denial
Disinformation
Drone / Robot
Electromagnetic
Firearms
Infantry
Loitering
Missile
Music
Nuclear
Psychological
Radiological
Submarine
Unconventional
TacticsList of military tactics
Aerial
Airlift
Air assault
Airbridge
Airdrop
Anti-aircraft
Anti-sub
Anti-tank
Battle
Cavalry
Charge
CQC
Counterattack
Counterinsurgency
Convoy
Defeat in detail
Foxhole
Drone
Envelopment
Formation
Guerrilla
Naval
Rapid dominance
Encirclement
Investment
Siege
Swarm
Screen
Tactical objective
Target saturation
Trench
Withdrawal
Operational
Military operation
Special
Operations research
Blitzkrieg
Expeditionary
Deep operation
Maneuver
Operational maneuver group
Raid
Covert
Stay-behind
StrategyList of military strategies and concepts
Military campaign
Anti-access
Attrition
Commerce raiding
Counter-offensive
Culminating
Defense in depth
Fabian
Empty fort
Mosaic
Deception
Defensive
Depth
Goal
Nuclear
Naval
Offensive
Scorched earth
Grand strategy
Asymmetric
Blockade
Broken-backed
Class
Cold war
Colonial
Conquest
Containment
Divide and conquer
Economic
Endemic
Fleet in being
Irregular
Liberation
Limited
Network-centric
New generation
Perpetual
Political
Princely
Proxy
Religious
Resource
Strategic
Succession
Technology
Theater
Total war
World war
Administrative
Branch
Policy
Staff
Training
Service
Sociology
Organization
Area of responsibility
Chain of command
Command and control
Doctrine
Order of battle
Principles of war
Economy of force
Medicine
Engineers
Intelligence
Ranks
Technology and equipment
Personnel
Recruitment
Conscription
Draft evasion
Mobilization
Training
Specialism
Soldier
Morale
Volunteer
Women
Children
Transgender
Harassment
Conscientious objector
Conscription and sexism
Counter-recruitment
Logistics
History
War economy
Arms industry
Materiel
Supply-chain management
Defense industrial base
Base
MOB
FOB
Outpost
Science
Power projection
Loss-of-strength gradient
Lanchester's laws
Force multiplication
Morale
Law
Belligerent
Occupation
Armistice
Ceasefire
Court-martial
Desertion
Geneva Conventions
Geneva Protocol
Islamic rules
Justice
Lawful / Unlawful combatant
Perfidy
Regular / Irregular
Jewish laws on war
Right of conquest
Right of self-defense
Rules of engagement
Self-determination
Martial law
War crime
War and genocide
War treason
Theory
Air supremacy
Appeasement
Command of the sea
Deterrence theory
Full-spectrum dominance
Overmatch
Just war theory
Principles of war
Philosophy of war
Security dilemma
Tripwire force
Wargaming
Simulation
Exercises
Combat effectiveness
Center of gravity
Non-warfare
Arms control
Counter-insurgency
Deterrence
Disaster response
Gray-zone
Gunboat diplomacy
Humanitarian aid
Law enforcement
Low-intensity conflict
Military engineering
Peacekeeping
Peacebuilding
Peace through strength
Show of force
Culture
Awards and decorations
Battle cry
Warrior
War film
Military science fiction
War novel
Anti-war movement
Foot drill
War song
Uniform
Wargame
Militarization / Militarism
Antimilitarism
Camp follower
Books
Seven Military Classics
The Art of War
De re militari
Strategemata
Related
Women in war
War resister
War studies
Horses in warfare
Wartime sexual violence
Fifth column
Mercenary
Pacifism
Privateer
Private military company
Soldiers are murderers
Lists
Battles
Military occupations
Military terms
Operations
Sieges
War crimes
Wars
by death toll
Weapons
Writers
vte
A privateer is a private person or vessel which engages in commerce raiding under a commission of war.[1] Since robbery under arms was a common aspect of seaborne trade, until the early 19th century all merchant ships carried arms. A sovereign or delegated authority issued commissions, also referred to as letters of marque, during wartime. The commission empowered the holder to carry on all forms of hostility permissible at sea by the usages of war. This included attacking foreign vessels and taking them as prizes and taking crews prisoner for exchange. Captured ships were subject to condemnation and sale under prize law, with the proceeds divided by percentage between the privateer's sponsors, shipowners, captains and crew. A percentage share usually went to the issuer of the commission (i.e. the sovereign). Most colonial powers, as well as other countries, engaged in privateering.
Privateering allowed sovereigns to augment their naval forces at relatively low cost by mobilizing privately owned armed ships and sailors to supplement state power. For participants, privateering provided the potential for a greater income and profit than obtainable as a merchant seafarer or fisher while avoiding the dangers associated with outright piracy. However, the line between privateers and pirates was not always clear.
The commission usually protected privateers from accusations of piracy, but in practice the historical legality and status of privateers could be vague. Depending on the specific sovereign and the time period, commissions might be issued hastily; privateers might take actions beyond what was authorized in the commission, including after its expiry. A privateer who continued raiding after the expiration of a commission or the signing of a peace treaty could face accusations of piracy. The risk of piracy and the emergence of the modern state system of centralised military control caused the decline of privateering by the end of the 19th century.
Legal framework and relation to piracy[edit]
Main articles: Prize law and Piracy
The commission was the proof the privateer was not a pirate. It usually limited activity to one particular ship, and specified officers, for a specific period of time. Typically, the owners or captain would be required to post a performance bond. The commission also dictated the expected nationality of potential prize ships under the terms of the war. At sea, the privateer captain was obliged to produce the commission to a potential prize ship's captain as evidence of the legitimacy of their prize claim. If the nationality of a prize was not the enemy of the commissioning sovereign, the privateer could not claim the ship as a prize. Doing so would be an act of piracy.
In British law, under the Offences at Sea Act 1536, piracy, or raiding a ship without a valid commission, was an act of treason. By the late 17th century, the prosecution of privateers loyal to the usurped King James II for piracy began to shift the legal framework of piracy away from treason towards crime against property.[2] As a result, privateering commissions became a matter of national discretion. By the passing of the Piracy Act 1717, a privateer's allegiance to Britain overrode any allegiance to a sovereign providing the commission. This helped bring privateers under the legal jurisdiction of their home country in the event the privateer turned pirate. Other European countries followed suit. The shift from treason to property also justified the criminalisation of traditional sea-raiding activities of people Europeans wished to colonise.
Dutch warships under Witte de With fighting against Dunkirk Privateers off Nieuwpoort in 1640
The legal framework around authorised sea-raiding was considerably murkier outside of Europe. Unfamiliarity with local forms of authority created difficulty determining who was legitimately sovereign on land and at sea, whether to accept their authority, or whether the opposing parties were, in fact, pirates. Mediterranean corsairs operated with a style of patriotic-religious authority that Europeans, and later Americans, found difficult to understand and accept.[citation needed] It did not help that many European privateers happily accepted commissions from the deys of Algiers, Tangiers and Tunis. [citation needed]
The sultans of the Sulu archipelago (now present-day Philippines) held only a tenuous authority over the local Iranun communities of slave-raiders. The sultans created a carefully spun web of marital and political alliances in an attempt to control unauthorised raiding that would provoke war against them.[3] In Malay political systems, the legitimacy and strength of their Sultan's management of trade determined the extent he exerted control over the sea-raiding of his coastal people.[4]
Privateers were implicated in piracy for a number of complex reasons. For colonial authorities, successful privateers were skilled seafarers who brought in much-needed revenue, especially in newly settled colonial outposts.[5] These skills and benefits often caused local authorities to overlook a privateer's shift into piracy when a war ended. The French Governor of Petit-Goave gave buccaneer Francois Grogniet blank privateering commissions, which Grogniet traded to Edward Davis for a spare ship so the two could continue raiding Spanish cities under a guise of legitimacy.[6] New York Governors Jacob Leisler and Benjamin Fletcher were removed from office in part for their dealings with pirates such as Thomas Tew, to whom Fletcher had granted commissions to sail against the French, but who ignored his commission to raid Mughal shipping in the Red Sea instead.[7]
Some privateers faced prosecution for piracy. William Kidd accepted a commission from King William III of England to hunt pirates but was later hanged for piracy. He had been unable to produce the papers of the prizes he had captured to prove his innocence.[8]
Privateering commissions were easy to obtain during wartime but when the war ended and sovereigns recalled the privateers, many refused to give up the lucrative business and turned to piracy.[9] Boston minister Cotton Mather lamented after the execution of pirate John Quelch:[10] Yea, since the privateering stroke so easily degenerates into the piratical and the privateering trade is usually carried on with so un-Christian a temper and proves an inlet unto so much debauchery and iniquity and confusion, I believe I shall have good men concur with me in wishing that privateering may no more be practised except there may appear more hopeful circumstances to encourage it.
Noted privateers[edit]
John Hawkins (left) with Francis Drake (centre) and Thomas Cavendish
Privateers who were considered legitimate by their governments include:
Miguel Enríquez (Spanish Empire)
Pieter van der Does (Dutch Empire)
Amaro Pargo (Spanish Empire)
Hayreddin Barbarossa (Ottoman Empire)
Robert Surcouf (France)
Lars Gathenhielm (Sweden)
Sir Francis Drake (England)
Jonathan Barnet (England)
Sir John Hawkins (England)
Juana Larando (Basque Country)
Jean Bart (France)
Ships[edit]
Entrepreneurs converted many different types of vessels into privateers, including obsolete warships and refitted merchant ships. The investors would arm the vessels and recruit large crews, much larger than a merchantman or a naval vessel would carry, in order to crew the prizes they captured.
Privateers generally cruised independently, but it was not unknown for them to form squadrons, or to co-operate with the regular navy. A number of privateers were part of the English fleet that opposed the Spanish Armada in 1588. Privateers generally avoided encounters with warships, as such encounters would be at best unprofitable. Still, such encounters did occur. For instance, in 1815 Chasseur encountered HMS St Lawrence, herself a former American privateer, mistaking her for a merchantman until too late; in this instance, however, the privateer prevailed.
The United States used mixed squadrons of frigates and privateers in the American Revolutionary War. Following the French Revolution, French privateers became a menace to British and American shipping in the western Atlantic and the Caribbean, resulting in the Quasi-War, a brief conflict between France and the United States, fought largely at sea, and to the Royal Navy's procuring Bermuda sloops to combat the French privateers.[11]
Overall history[edit]
16th-century trade routes prey to privateering: Spanish treasure fleets linking the Caribbean to Seville, Manila-Acapulco galleons started in 1568 (white) and rival Portuguese India Armadas of 1498–1640 (blue)
In Europe, the practice of authorising sea-raiding dated to at least the 13th century but the word 'privateer' was coined sometime in the mid-17th century.[12] Seamen who served on naval vessels were paid wages and given victuals, whereas mariners on merchantmen and privateers received a share of the takings.[13]
Privateering thus offered otherwise working-class enterprises (merchant ships) with the chance at substantial wealth (prize money from captures).
The opportunity mobilized local seamen as auxiliaries in an era when state capacity limited the ability of a nation to fund a professional navy via taxation.[14]
Privateers were a large part of the total military force at sea during the 17th and 18th centuries. In the first Anglo-Dutch War, English privateers attacked the trade on which the United Provinces entirely depended, capturing over 1,000 Dutch merchant ships. During the subsequent war with Spain, Spanish and Flemish privateers in the service of the Spanish Crown, including the Dunkirkers, captured 1,500 English merchant ships, helping to restore Dutch international trade.[citation needed] British trade, whether coastal, Atlantic, or Mediterranean, was also attacked by Dutch privateers and others in the Second and Third Anglo-Dutch wars. Piet Pieterszoon Hein was a brilliantly successful Dutch privateer who captured a Spanish treasure fleet. Magnus Heinason was another privateer who served the Dutch against the Spanish. While their and others' attacks brought home a great deal of money, they hardly dented the flow of gold and silver from Mexico to Spain.
Greek privateer Lambros Katsonis raided Ottoman shipping in the 18th century
As the Industrial Revolution proceeded, privateering became increasingly incompatible with modern states' monopoly on violence. Modern warships could easily outrace merchantmen, and tight controls on naval armaments led to fewer private-purchase naval weapons.[14]
Privateering continued until the 1856 Declaration of Paris, in which all major European powers stated that "Privateering is and remains abolished".
The United States did not sign the Declaration over stronger language that protects all private property from capture at sea, but has not issued letters of marque in any subsequent conflicts.
In the 19th century, many nations passed laws forbidding their nationals from accepting commissions as privateers for other nations.
The last major power to flirt with privateering was Prussia in the 1870 Franco-Prussian War, when Prussia announced the creation of a 'volunteer navy' of ships privately owned and -manned, but eligible for prize money.
(Prussia argued that the Declaration did not forbid such a force, because the ships were subject to naval discipline.)
England/Britain[edit]
In England, and later the United Kingdom, the ubiquity of wars and the island nation's reliance on maritime trade enabled the use of privateers to great effect. England also suffered much from other nations' privateering. During the 15th century, the country "lacked an institutional structure and coordinated finance".[13] When piracy became an increasing problem, merchant communities such as Bristol began to resort to self-help, arming and equipping ships at their own expense to protect commerce.[15] The licensing of these privately owned merchant ships by the Crown enabled them to legitimately capture vessels that were deemed pirates. This constituted a "revolution in naval strategy" and helped fill the need for protection that the Crown was unable to provide.
During the reign of Queen Elizabeth (1558–1603), she "encouraged the development of this supplementary navy".[16] Over the course of her rule, the increase of Spanish prosperity through their explorations in the New World and the discovery of gold contributed to the deterioration of Anglo-Spanish relations.[17] Elizabeth's authorisation of sea-raiders (known as Sea Dogs) such as Francis Drake and Walter Raleigh allowed her to officially distance herself from their raiding activities while enjoying the gold gained from these raids. English ships cruised in the Caribbean and off the coast of Spain, trying to intercept treasure fleets from the Spanish Main.[18] During the Anglo-Spanish War (1585-1604) England continued to rely on private ships-of-war to attack Iberian shipping because the Queen had insufficient finance to fund this herself.[19] After the war ended many unemployed English privateers turned to piracy.[20]
Elizabeth was succeeded by the first Stuart monarchs, James I and Charles I, who did not permit privateering. Desperate to fund the expensive War of Spanish Succession, Queen Anne restarted privateering and even removed the need for a sovereign's percentage as an incentive.[2] Sovereigns continued to license British privateers throughout the century, although there were a number of unilateral and bilateral declarations limiting privateering between 1785 and 1823. This helped establish the privateer's persona as heroic patriots. British privateers last appeared en masse in the Napoleonic Wars.[21]
Woodes Rogers' men search Spanish ladies for their jewels in Guayaquil, 1709
England and Scotland practiced privateering both separately and together after they united to create the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. It was a way to gain for themselves some of the wealth the Spanish and Portuguese were taking from the New World before beginning their own trans-Atlantic settlement, and a way to assert naval power before a strong Royal Navy emerged.
Sir Andrew Barton, Lord High Admiral of Scotland, followed the example of his father, who had been issued with letters of marque by James III of Scotland to prey upon English and Portuguese shipping in 1485; the letters in due course were reissued to the son. Barton was killed following an encounter with the English in 1511.
Sir Francis Drake, who had close contact with the sovereign, was responsible for some damage to Spanish shipping, as well as attacks on Spanish settlements in the Americas in the 16th century. He participated in the successful English defence against the Spanish Armada in 1588, though he was also partly responsible for the failure of the English Armada against Spain in 1589.
Sir George Clifford, 3rd Earl of Cumberland, was a successful privateer against Spanish shipping in the Caribbean. He is also famous for his short-lived 1598 capture of Fort San Felipe del Morro, the citadel protecting San Juan, Puerto Rico. He arrived in Puerto Rico on June 15, 1598, but by November of that year, Clifford and his men had fled the island due to fierce civilian resistance. He gained sufficient prestige from his naval exploits to be named the official Champion of Queen Elizabeth I. Clifford became extremely wealthy through his buccaneering but lost most of his money gambling on horse races.
An action between an English ship and vessels of the Barbary corsairs
Captain Christopher Newport led more attacks on Spanish shipping and settlements than any other English privateer. As a young man, Newport sailed with Sir Francis Drake in the attack on the Spanish fleet at Cadiz and participated in England's defeat of the Spanish Armada.
During the war with Spain, Newport seized fortunes of Spanish and Portuguese treasure in fierce sea battles in the West Indies as a privateer for Queen Elizabeth I. He lost an arm whilst capturing a Spanish ship during an expedition in 1590, but despite this, he continued on privateering, successfully blockading Western Cuba the following year. In 1592, Newport captured the Portuguese carrack Madre de Deus (Mother of God), valued at £500,000.
Sir Henry Morgan was a successful privateer. Operating out of Jamaica, he carried on a war against Spanish interests in the region, often using cunning tactics. His operation was prone to cruelty against those he captured, including torture to gain information about booty, and in one case using priests as human shields. Despite reproaches for some of his excesses, he was generally protected by Sir Thomas Modyford, the governor of Jamaica. He took an enormous amount of booty, as well as landing his privateers ashore and attacking land fortifications, including the sack of the city of Panama with only 1,400 crew.[22]
Other British privateers of note include Fortunatus Wright, Edward Collier, Sir John Hawkins, his son Sir Richard Hawkins, Michael Geare, and Sir Christopher Myngs.
Notable British colonial privateers in Nova Scotia include Alexander Godfrey of the brig Rover and Joseph Barss of the schooner Liverpool Packet. The latter schooner captured over 50 American vessels during the War of 1812.
Bermudians[edit]
The English colony of Bermuda (or the Somers Isles), settled accidentally in 1609, was used as a base for English privateers from the time it officially became part of the territory of the Virginia Company in 1612, especially by ships belonging to Robert Rich, the Earl of Warwick, for whom Bermuda's Warwick Parish is named (the Warwick name had long been associated with commerce raiding, as exampled by the Newport Ship,[23] thought to have been taken from the Spanish by Warwick the Kingmaker in the 15th century).[24][25] Many Bermudians were employed as crew aboard privateers throughout the century, although the colony was primarily devoted to farming cash crops until turning from its failed agricultural economy to the sea after the 1684 dissolution of the Somers Isles Company (a spin-off of the Virginia Company, which had overseen the colony since 1615). With a total area of 54 square kilometres (21 sq mi) and lacking any natural resources other than the Bermuda cedar, the colonists applied themselves fully to the maritime trades, developing the speedy Bermuda sloop, which was well suited both to commerce and to commerce raiding. Bermudian merchant vessels turned to privateering at every opportunity in the 18th century, preying on the shipping of Spain, France, and other nations during a series of wars, including the 1688 to 1697 Nine Years' War (King William's War); the 1702 to 1713 Queen Anne's War;[26][27] the 1739 to 1748 War of Jenkins' Ear; the 1740 to 1748 War of the Austrian Succession (King George's War); the 1754 to 1763 Seven Years' War (known in the United States as the French and Indian War), this conflict was devastating for the colony's merchant fleet. Fifteen privateers operated from Bermuda during the war, but losses exceeded captures; the 1775 to 1783 American War of Independence; and the 1796 to 1808 Anglo-Spanish War.[28][29] By the middle of the 18th century, Bermuda was sending twice as many privateers to sea as any of the continental colonies. They typically left Bermuda with very large crews. This advantage in manpower was vital in overpowering the crews of larger vessels, which themselves often lacked sufficient crewmembers to put up a strong defence. The extra crewmen were also useful as prize crews for returning captured vessels.
The Bahamas, which had been depopulated of its indigenous inhabitants by the Spanish, had been settled by England, beginning with the Eleutheran Adventurers, dissident Puritans driven out of Bermuda during the English Civil War. Spanish and French attacks destroyed New Providence in 1703, creating a stronghold for pirates, and it became a thorn in the side of British merchant trade through the area. In 1718, Britain appointed Woodes Rogers as Governor of the Bahamas, and sent him at the head of a force to reclaim the settlement. Before his arrival, however, the pirates had been forced to surrender by a force of Bermudian privateers who had been issued letters of marque by the Governor of Bermuda.
Bermuda Gazette of 12 November 1796, calling for privateering against Spain and its allies during the 1796 to 1808 Anglo-Spanish War, and with advertisements for crew for two privateer vessels.
Bermuda was in de facto control of the Turks Islands, with their lucrative salt industry, from the late 17th century to the early 19th. The Bahamas made perpetual attempts to claim the Turks for itself. On several occasions, this involved seizing the vessels of Bermudian salt traders. A virtual state of war was said to exist between Bermudian and Bahamian vessels for much of the 18th century. When the Bermudian sloop Seaflower was seized by the Bahamians in 1701, the response of the Governor of Bermuda, Captain Benjamin Bennett, was to issue letters of marque to Bermudian vessels. In 1706, Spanish and French forces ousted the Bermudians but were driven out themselves three years later by the Bermudian privateer Captain Lewis Middleton. His ship, the Rose, attacked a Spanish and a French privateer holding a captive English vessel. Defeating the two enemy vessels, the Rose then cleared out the thirty-man garrison left by the Spanish and French.[30]
Despite strong sentiments in support of the rebels, especially in the early stages, Bermudian privateers turned as aggressively on American shipping during the American War of Independence. The importance of privateering to the Bermudian economy had been increased not only by the loss of most of Bermuda's continental trade but also by the Palliser Act, which forbade Bermudian vessels from fishing the Grand Banks. Bermudian trade with the rebellious American colonies actually carried on throughout the war. Some historians credit the large number of Bermuda sloops (reckoned at over a thousand) built-in Bermuda as privateers and sold illegally to the Americans as enabling the rebellious colonies to win their independence.[31] Also, the Americans were dependent on Turks salt, and one hundred barrels of gunpowder were stolen from a Bermudian magazine and supplied to the rebels as orchestrated by Colonel Henry Tucker and Benjamin Franklin, and as requested by George Washington, in exchange for which the Continental Congress authorised the sale of supplies to Bermuda, which was dependent on American produce. The realities of this interdependence did nothing to dampen the enthusiasm with which Bermudian privateers turned on their erstwhile countrymen.
An American naval captain, ordered to take his ship out of Boston Harbor to eliminate a pair of Bermudian privateering vessels that had been picking off vessels missed by the Royal Navy, returned frustrated, saying, "the Bermudians sailed their ships two feet for every one of ours".[32] Around 10,000 Bermudians emigrated in the years prior to American independence, mostly to the American colonies. Many Bermudians occupied prominent positions in American seaports, from where they continued their maritime trades (Bermudian merchants controlled much of the trade through ports like Charleston, South Carolina, and Bermudian shipbuilders influenced the development of American vessels, like the Chesapeake Bay schooner),[28][33][34] and in the Revolution they used their knowledge of Bermudians and of Bermuda, as well as their vessels, for the rebels' cause. In the 1777 Battle of Wreck Hill, brothers Charles and Francis Morgan, members of a large Bermudian enclave that had dominated Charleston, South Carolina and its environs since settlement,[35][36] captaining two sloops (the Fair American and the Experiment, respectively), carried out the only attack on Bermuda during the war. The target was a fort that guarded a little used passage through the encompassing reef line. After the soldiers manning the fort were forced to abandon it, they spiked its guns and fled themselves before reinforcements could arrive.[37]
A Bermuda sloop engaged as a privateer.
When the Americans captured the Bermudian privateer Regulator, they discovered that virtually all of her crew were black slaves. Authorities in Boston offered these men their freedom, but all 70 elected to be treated as prisoners of war. Sent as such to New York on the sloop Duxbury, they seized the vessel and sailed it back to Bermuda.[38] One-hundred and thirty prizes were brought to Bermuda in the year between 4th day of April 1782 and the 4th day of April 1783 alone, including three by Royal Naval vessels and the remainder by privateers.[39]
The War of 1812 saw an encore of Bermudian privateering, which had died out after the 1790s. The decline of Bermudian privateering was due partly to the buildup of the naval base in Bermuda, which reduced the Admiralty's reliance on privateers in the western Atlantic, and partly to successful American legal suits and claims for damages pressed against British privateers, a large portion of which were aimed squarely at the Bermudians.[35] During the course of the War of 1812, Bermudian privateers captured 298 ships, some 19% of the 1,593 vessels captured by British naval and privateering vessels between the Great Lakes and the West Indies.[40]
Among the better known (native-born and immigrant) Bermudian privateers were Hezekiah Frith, Bridger Goodrich,[41] Henry Jennings, Thomas Hewetson,[42] and Thomas Tew.
Providence Island colony[edit]
Main article: Providence Island colony
Bermudians were also involved in privateering from the short-lived English colony on Isla de Providencia, off the coast of Nicaragua. This colony was initially settled largely via Bermuda, with about eighty Bermudians moved to Providence in 1631. Although it was intended that the colony be used to grow cash crops, its location in the heart of the Spanish controlled territory ensured that it quickly became a base for privateering.
Bermuda-based privateer Daniel Elfrith, while on a privateering expedition with Captain Sussex Camock of the bark Somer Ilands (a rendering of "Somers Isles", the alternate name of the Islands of Bermuda commemorating Admiral Sir George Somers) in 1625, discovered two islands off the coast of Nicaragua, 80 kilometres (50 mi) apart from each other. Camock stayed with 30 of his men to explore one of the islands, San Andrés, while Elfrith took the Warwicke back to Bermuda bringing news of Providence Island. Bermuda Governor Bell wrote on behalf of Elfrith to Sir Nathaniel Rich, a businessman and cousin of the Earl of Warwick (the namesake of Warwick Parish), who presented a proposal for colonizing the island noting its strategic location "lying in the heart of the Indies & the mouth of the Spaniards". Elfrith was appointed admiral of the colony's military forces in 1631, remaining the overall military commander for over seven years. During this time, Elfrith served as a guide to other privateers and sea captains arriving in the Caribbean. Elfrith invited the well-known privateer Diego el Mulato to the island. Samuel Axe, one of the military leaders, also accepted letters of marque from the Dutch authorizing privateering.
The Spanish did not hear of the Providence Island colony until 1635 when they captured some Englishmen in Portobelo, on the Isthmus of Panama. Francisco de Murga, Governor and Captain-General of Cartagena, dispatched Captain Gregorio de Castellar y Mantilla and engineer Juan de Somovilla Texada to destroy the colony.[43] The Spanish were repelled and forced to retreat "in haste and disorder".[44] After the attack, King Charles I of England issued letters of marque to the Providence Island Company on 21 December 1635 authorizing raids on the Spanish in retaliation for a raid that had destroyed the English colony on Tortuga earlier in 1635 (Tortuga had come under the protection of the Providence Island Company. In 1635 a Spanish fleet raided Tortuga. 195 colonists were hung and 39 prisoners and 30 slaves were captured). The company could in turn issue letters of marque to subcontracting privateers who used the island as a base, for a fee.
This soon became an important source of profit. Thus the company made an agreement with the merchant Maurice Thompson under which Thompson could use the island as a base in return for 20% of the booty.[45]
In March 1636 the Company dispatched Captain Robert Hunt on the Blessing to assume the governorship of what was now viewed as a base for privateering.[46] Depredations continued, leading to growing tension between England and Spain, which were still technically at peace.
On 11 July 1640, the Spanish Ambassador in London complained again, saying he
understands that there is lately brought in at the Isle of Wight by one, Captain James Reskinner [James Reiskimmer], a ship very richly laden with silver, gold, diamonds, pearls, jewels, and many other precious commodities taken by him in virtue of a commission of the said Earl [of Warwick] from the subjects of his Catholic Majesty ... to the infinite wrong and dishonour of his Catholic Majesty, to find himself thus injured and violated, and his subjects thus spoiled, robbed, impoverished and murdered in the highest time of peace, league and amity with your Majesty.[47]
Nathaniel Butler, formerly Governor of Bermuda, was the last full governor of Providence Island, replacing Robert Hunt in 1638. Butler returned to England in 1640, satisfied that the fortifications were adequate, deputizing the governorship to Captain Andrew Carter.[48]
In 1640, don Melchor de Aguilera, Governor and Captain-General of Cartagena, resolved to remove the intolerable infestation of pirates on the island. Taking advantage of having infantry from Castile and Portugal wintering in his port, he dispatched six hundred armed Spaniards from the fleet and the presidio, and two hundred black and mulatto militiamen under the leadership of don Antonio Maldonado y Tejada, his Sergeant Major, in six small frigates and a galleon.[49] The troops were landed on the island, and a fierce fight ensued. The Spanish were forced to withdraw when a gale blew up and threatened their ships. Carter had the Spanish prisoners executed. When the Puritan leaders protested against this brutality, Carter sent four of them home in chains.[50]
Main article: Spanish capture of Providencia
The Spanish acted decisively to avenge their defeat. General Francisco Díaz Pimienta was given orders by King Philip IV of Spain, and sailed from Cartagena to Providence with seven large ships, four pinnaces, 1,400 soldiers and 600 seamen, arriving on 19 May 1641. At first, Pimienta planned to attack the poorly defended east side, and the English rushed there to improvise defenses. With the winds against him, Pimienta changed plans and made for the main New Westminster harbor and launched his attack on 24 May. He held back his large ships to avoid damage, and used the pinnaces to attack the forts. The Spanish troops quickly gained control, and once the forts saw the Spanish flag flying over the governor's house, they began negotiations for surrender.[51]
On 25 May 1641, Pimienta formally took possession and celebrated mass in the church. The Spanish took sixty guns, and captured the 350 settlers who remained on the island – others had escaped to the Mosquito Coast.
They took the prisoners to Cartagena.[52] The women and children were given a passage back to England. The Spanish found gold, indigo, cochineal and six hundred black slaves on the island, worth a total of 500,000 ducats, some of the accumulated booty from the raids on Spanish ships.[53] Rather than destroy the defenses, as instructed, Pimienta left a small garrison of 150 men to hold the island and prevent occupation by the Dutch.[52]
Later that year, Captain John Humphrey, who had been chosen to succeed Captain Butler as governor, arrived with a large group of dissatisfied settlers from New England. He found the Spanish occupying the islands, and sailed away.[54] Pimienta's decision to occupy the island was approved in 1643 and he was made a knight of the Order of Santiago.[52]
Spain and its colonies[edit]
Main articles: Dunkirkers and Guarda costa
The Spanish Amaro Pargo was one of the most famous corsairs of the Golden Age of Piracy.
Miguel Enríquez.
When Spain issued a decree blocking foreign countries from trading, selling or buying merchandise in its Caribbean colonies, the entire region became engulfed in a power struggle among the naval superpowers.[55] The newly independent United States later became involved in this scenario, complicating the conflict.[55] As a consequence, Spain increased the issuing of privateering contracts.[55] These contracts allowed an income option to the inhabitants of these colonies that were not related to the Spanish conquistadores. The most well-known privateer corsairs of the eighteenth century in the Spanish colonies were Miguel Enríquez of Puerto Rico and José Campuzano-Polanco of Santo Domingo.[56] Miguel Enríquez was a Puerto Rican mulatto who abandoned his work as a shoemaker to work as a privateer. Such was the success of Enríquez, that he became one of the wealthiest men in the New World. His fleet was composed of approx. 300 different ships during a career that spanned 35 years, becoming a military asset and reportedly outperforming the efficiency of the Armada de Barlovento. Enríquez was knighted and received the title of Don from Philip V, something unheard of due to his ethnic and social background. One of the most famous privateers from Spain was Amaro Pargo.
France[edit]
Advertising for the auction of the prize Chelmers of London, brig captured by the French privateer Junon in 1810.
Main article: French corsairs
Corsairs (French: corsaire) were privateers, authorized to conduct raids on shipping of a nation at war with France, on behalf of the French Crown. Seized vessels and cargo were sold at auction, with the corsair captain entitled to a portion of the proceeds. Although not French Navy personnel, corsairs were considered legitimate combatants in France (and allied nations), provided the commanding officer of the vessel was in possession of a valid Letter of Marque (fr. Lettre de Marque or Lettre de Course), and the officers and crew conducted themselves according to contemporary admiralty law. By acting on behalf of the French Crown, if captured by the enemy, they could claim treatment as prisoners of war, instead of being considered pirates. Because corsairs gained a swashbuckling reputation, the word "corsair" is also used generically as a more romantic or flamboyant way of referring to privateers, or even to pirates. The Barbary pirates of North Africa as well as Ottomans were sometimes called "Turkish corsairs".
Malta[edit]
Corsairing (Italian: corso) was an important aspect of Malta's economy when the island was ruled by the Order of St. John, although the practice had begun earlier. Corsairs sailed on privately owned ships on behalf of the Grand Master of the Order, and were authorized to attack Muslim ships, usually merchant ships from the Ottoman Empire. The corsairs included knights of the Order, native Maltese people, as well as foreigners. When they captured a ship, the goods were sold and the crew and passengers were ransomed or enslaved, and the Order took a percentage of the value of the booty.[57] Corsairing remained common until the end of the 18th century.[58]
United States[edit]
British Colonial period[edit]
Chasseur, one of the most famous American privateers of the War of 1812, capturing HMS St Lawrence
During King George's War, approximately 36,000 Americans served aboard privateers at one time or another.[59] During the Nine Years War, the French adopted a policy of strongly encouraging privateers, including the famous Jean Bart, to attack English and Dutch shipping. England lost roughly 4,000 merchant ships during the war.[59] In the following War of Spanish Succession, privateer attacks continued, Britain losing 3,250 merchant ships.[60]
In the subsequent conflict, the War of Austrian Succession, the Royal Navy was able to concentrate more on defending British ships. Britain lost 3,238 merchantmen, a smaller fraction of her merchant marine than the enemy losses of 3,434.[59] While French losses were proportionally severe, the smaller but better protected Spanish trade suffered the least and it was Spanish privateers who enjoyed much of the best-allied plunder of British trade, particularly in the West Indies.
American Revolutionary War[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Privateer" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Main article: American Revolutionary War
Further information: Naval battles of the American Revolutionary War
See also: Whaleboat War
During the American Revolutionary War, the Continental Congress, and some state governments (on their own initiative), issued privateering licenses, authorizing "legal piracy", to merchant captains in an effort to take prizes from the British Navy and Tory (Loyalist) privateers. This was done due to the relatively small number of commissioned American naval vessels and the pressing need for prisoner exchange.Naval battle off Halifax, Nova Scotia
About 55,000 American seamen served aboard the privateers.[61] They quickly sold their prizes, dividing their profits with the financier (persons or company) and the state (colony). Long Island Sound became a hornets' nest of privateering activity during the American Revolution (1775–1783), as most transports to and from New York went through the Sound. New London, Connecticut was a chief privateering port for the American colonies, leading to the British Navy blockading it in 1778–1779. Chief financiers of privateering included Thomas & Nathaniel Shaw of New London and John McCurdy of Lyme. In the months before the British raid on New London and Groton, a New London privateer took Hannah in what is regarded as the largest prize taken by any American privateer during the war. Retribution was likely part of Gov. Clinton's (NY) motivation for Arnold's Raid, as the Hannah had carried many of his most cherished items.
American privateers are thought to have seized up to 300 British ships during the war. The British ship Jack was captured and turned into an American privateer, only to be captured again by the British in the naval battle off Halifax, Nova Scotia. American privateers not only fought naval battles but also raided numerous communities in British colonies, such as the Raid on Lunenburg, Nova Scotia (1782).
The United States Constitution authorized the U.S. Congress to grant letters of marque and reprisal. Between the end of the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812, less than 30 years, Britain, France, Naples, the Barbary States, Spain, and the Netherlands seized approximately 2,500 American ships.[62] Payments in ransom and tribute to the Barbary states amounted to 20% of United States government annual revenues in 1800[63] and would lead the United States to fight the Barbary states in the First Barbary War and Second Barbary Wars.
War of 1812[edit]
During the War of 1812, both the British and the American governments used privateers, and the established system was very similar.[64] U.S. Congress declared that war be and the same is hereby declared to exist between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and the dependencies thereof, and the United States of America and their Territories; and that the President of the United States is herby authorized to use the whole land and naval force of the United States to carry the same into effect, and to issue to private armed vessels of the United States commissions of marque and general reprisal, in such forms as he shall think proper, and under the seal of the United States, against the vessels, goods, and effects of the Government of the said United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and the subjects thereof.[65]President Madison issued 500 letters of marque authorizing privateers. Overall some 200 of the ships took prizes. The cost of buying and fitting of a large privateer was about $40,000 and prizes could net $100,000.[66]
Captain Thomas Boyle was one of the famous and successful American privateers. He commanded the Baltimore schooner Comet and then later in the war the Baltimore clipper Chasseur. He captured over 50 British merchant ships during the war. One source[67] estimated a total damage to the British merchant navy from Chasseur's 1813-1815 activities at one and a half million dollars. In total, the Baltimore privateer fleet of 122 ships sunk or seized 500 British ships with an estimated value of $16 million, which accounts about one-third of all the value of all prizes taken over the course of the whole war.[68]
James De Wolf
On April 8, 1814, the British attacked Essex, Connecticut, and burned the ships in the harbor, due to the construction there of a number of privateers. This was the greatest financial loss of the entire War of 1812 suffered by the Americans. However, the private fleet of James De Wolf, which sailed under the flag of the American government in 1812, was most likely a key factor in the naval campaign of the war. De Wolf's ship, the Yankee, was possibly the most financially successful ship of the war. Privateers proved to be far more successful than their US Navy counterparts, claiming three-quarters of the 1600 British merchant ships taken during the war (although a third of these were recaptured prior to making landfall). One of the more successful of these ships was the Prince de Neufchatel, which once captured nine British prizes in swift succession in the English Channel.[citation needed]
Jean Lafitte and his privateers aided US General Andrew Jackson in the defeat of the British in the Battle of New Orleans in order to receive full pardons for their previous crimes.[69][70][71][72][73] Jackson formally requested clemency for Lafitte and the men who had served under him, and the US government granted them all a full pardon on February 6, 1815.[74][75]
However, many of the ships captured by the Americans were recaptured by the Royal Navy. British convoy systems honed during the Napoleonic Wars limited losses to singleton ships, and the effective blockade of American and continental ports prevented captured ships being taken in for sale. This ultimately led to orders forbidding US privateers from attempting to bring their prizes in to port, with captured ships instead having to be burnt. Over 200 American privateer ships were captured by the Royal Navy, many of which were turned on their former owners and used by the British blockading forces. Nonetheless, during the War of 1812 the privateers "swept out from America's coasts, capturing and sinking as many as 2,500 British ships and doing approximately $40 million worth of damage to the British economy."[64]
1856 Declaration of Paris[edit]
The US was not one of the initial signatories of the 1856 Declaration of Paris which outlawed privateering, and the Confederate Constitution authorized use of privateers. However, the US did offer to adopt the terms of the Declaration during the American Civil War, when the Confederates sent several privateers to sea before putting their main effort in the more effective commissioned raiders.
American Civil War[edit]
CSS Savannah, a Confederate privateer.
During the American Civil War, privateering took on several forms including blockade running, while privateering generally occurred in the interests of both the North and the South. Letters of marque would often be issued to private shipping companies and other private owners of ships, authorizing them to engage vessels deemed to be unfriendly to the issuing government. Crews of ships were awarded the cargo and other prizes aboard any captured vessel as an incentive to search far and wide for ships attempting to supply the Confederacy, or aid the Union, as the case may be.
During the Civil War Confederate President Jefferson Davis issued letters of marque to anyone who would employ their ship to either attack Union shipping or bring badly needed supplies through the Union blockade into southern ports.[76]
Most of the supplies brought into the Confederacy were carried aboard privately owned vessels. When word came about that the Confederacy was willing to pay almost any price for military supplies, various interested parties designed and built specially designed lightweight seagoing steamers, blockade runners specifically designed and built to outrun Union ships on blockade patrol.[77]
Neither the United States nor Spain authorized privateers in their
war in 1898.[78]
Latin America[edit]
Main article: Insurgent Privateer
"Corsario" (Privateer) by Mexican artist Mauricio García Vega.
Warships were recruited by the insurgent governments during Spanish American wars of independence to destroy Spanish trade, and capture Spanish Merchant vessels. The private armed vessels came largely from the United States. Seamen from Britain, the United States, and France often manned these ships.
See also[edit]
Armed merchantman
Louis-Michel Aury
Auxiliary cruiser
"Barrett's Privateers"
Samuel Bellamy
Buccaneer
Renato Beluche
Paul Beneke
Commerce raiding
Filibuster (military)
Foreign Enlistment Act 1870 (UK)
Violent non-state actors at sea
Mercenary
Merchant raider
Neutrality Act of 1794 (US)
Pindari
Private maritime security companies
Private military company
Reprisal
State-sponsored terrorism
William Walker (filibuster)
Dominique You
List of obsolete occupations
References[edit]
^ Thomson, Janice E (1994). Mercenaries, pirates and sovereigns. New Jersey, United States: Princeton University Press. pp. 310/3153. ISBN 9780691086583.
^ a b Craze, Sarah (2016). "Prosecuting Privateers for Piracy: How Piracy Law Transitioned from Treason to a Crime against Property". The International Journal of Maritime History. 28 (4): 654–670. doi:10.1177/0843871416663987. S2CID 159998526.
^ Warren, James Francis (1981). The Sulu Zone 1768–1898. Singapore: Singapore University Press.
^ Murray, Dian H. (1987). Pirates of the South China Coast. California: Stanford University Press.
^ Zahedieh, Nuala (2005). "A Frugal Prudential and Hopeful Trade': Privateering in Jamaica, 1644–89". In Glete, Jan (ed.). Naval History 1500–1680. The International Library of Essays on Military History. Hants, England: Ashgate Publishing Limited. pp. 145–168.
^ Marley, David (2010). Pirates of the Americas. Santa Barbara, California: ABC-CLIO. ISBN 9781598842012. Retrieved 12 September 2017.
^ Burgess, Douglas R Jr. (2014). The Politics of Piracy: Crime and Civil Disobedience in Colonial America. Lebanon, New Hampshire: ForeEdge from University Press of New England. pp. 44–46. ISBN 9781611685275. Retrieved 31 January 2019.
^ Ritchie, Robert C. (1986). Captain Kidd and the War against the Pirates. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press.
^ Arnold, Samuel Greene (1859). History of the State of Rhode Island, Volume I: 1636–1700. New York: Appleton. pp. 540–541. Retrieved 31 January 2019.
^ Mather, Cotton (October 2007). Faithful warnings to prevent fearful judgments. Uttered in a brief discourse, occasioned, by a tragical spectacle, in a number of miserables under a sentence of death for piracy. At Boston in N.E. Jun. 22. 1704.: [Five lines of quotations]. Retrieved 31 January 2019.
^ Bermuda Gazette and Weekly Advertiser August 15, 1795
^ Rodger, N.A.M (2014). "The law and language of private naval warfare". The Mariner's Mirror. 100 (1): 5–16. doi:10.1080/00253359.2014.866371. S2CID 146428782.
^ a b Loades, D. M. (2009). The Making of the Elizabethan Navy, 1540–1590: From the Solent to the Armada. Woodbridge: Boydell. pp. 1, 53.
^ a b bean (6 March 2022). "Letters of Marque Today". Naval Gazing. Retrieved 29 June 2022.
^ Loades, D. M. (2009). The Making of the Elizabethan Navy, 1540–1590: From the Solent to the Armada. Woodbridge: Boydell. p. 3.
^ Loades, D. M. (2009). The Making of the Elizabethan Navy, 1540–1590: From the Solent to the Armada. Woodbridge: Boydell. p. 121.
^ Loades, D. M. (2009). The Making of the Elizabethan Navy, 1540–1590: From the Solent to the Armada. Woodbridge: Boydell. p. 113.
^ Andrews, Kenneth R. (1984). Trade, Plunder and Settlement 1480-1630. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
^ Andrews, Kenneth R. (1984). Trade, Plunder and Settlement 1480-1630. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
^ Senior, Clive M. (1976). A Nation of Pirates: English Piracy in its Heyday. Newton Abbot, UK: David & Charles.
^ McCarthy, Matthew (2013). Privateering, Piracy and British Policy in Spanish America 1810–1830. Woodbridge, UK: Boydell Press.[page needed]
^ "The Legendary Captain Morgan Raids Panama!". ThoughtCo. Retrieved 2017-10-19.
^ "The Newport Ship". Newport Past. Retrieved 25 October 2022.
^ Bojakowski, Katie (2014). "The Wreck of the Warwick, Bermuda 1619". tDAR (the Digital Archaeological Record). Center for Digital Antiquity, a collaborative organization and university Center at Arizona State University. Retrieved 2022-05-30.
^ Inglis, Doug (2012-06-05). "1619: Unrecoverably lost in Castle Harbour". Warwick, 1619: Shipwreck Excavation. The Warwick Excavation is a National Museum of Bermuda (NMB) project in partnership with Texas A&M and the Institute of Nautical Archaeology (INA), in association with The Global Exploration and Oceanographic Society (G-EOS) and Department of Archaeology at the University of Southampton. Retrieved 2022-05-30.
^ "Cedar on the Reef", ScholarShip. East Carolina University (PDF)
^ Southerly, James Christopher Welliver. "Cedar on the reef: archaeological and historical assessments of the Eighteenth-Century Bermuda Sloop, exemplified by the wreck of the Hunter Galley". libres.uncg.edu. Retrieved 6 February 2019.
^ a b Jarvis, Michael (2010). In the Eye of All Trade: Bermuda, Bermudians, and the Maritime Atlantic World, 1680–1783. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.[page needed]
^ Kennedy, Sister Jean de Chantal (1963), Bermuda's Sailors of Fortune", Bermuda Historical Society, ASIN B0007J8WMW
^ Cooke, Bill (2002). "Foreign Interlopers at Bermuda's Turks Islands". Maritimes: The Magazine of the Bermuda Maritime Museum. Vol. 15, no. 2.
^ Shorto, Lieutenant-Colonel A. Gavin (2018-04-05). "Bermuda in the Privateering Business". The Bermudian. City of Hamilton, Pembroke Parish, Bermuda: The Bermudian. Archived from the original on 2023-12-17. Retrieved 2023-11-26.
^ Williams, Ronald John (1946). Bermudiana. Rinehart & Company, Inc.[page needed]
^ "Tidewater Triumph: The Development and Worldwide Success of the Chesapeake Bay Pilot Schooner", by Geoffrey Footner. Schiffer Publishing. 1998. ISBN 978-0870335112
^ Jarvis, Michael (June 2001). "The Exodus". The Bermudian magazine.
^ a b Wilkinson, Henry. Bermuda From Sail To Steam: The History Of The Island From 1784 to 1901. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
^ Harris, Edward C. (1997). Bermuda Forts 1612–1957. The Bermuda Maritime Museum Press. ISBN 0-921560-11-7 – via The Bermuda Maritime Museum.
^ "1777: The US Navy & The Battle Of Wreck Hill". 8 April 2012. Retrieved 6 February 2019.
^ Jarvis, Michael J. "Maritime Masters and Seafaring Slaves in Bermuda, 1680–1783" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 January 2012. Retrieved 6 February 2019 – via The Jefferson Library.
^ John Lenis (1783-04-04). "A list of 130 prizes (ships) captured and brought into the port of Bermuda between 4..." National Archives of the British Government. CO 37/39/14. Retrieved 2021-10-03.
^ Strannack, Ian (1990). The Andrew and the Onions: The Story Of The Royal Navy In Bermuda, 1795–1975. Mangrove Bay, Bermuda: The Bermuda Maritime Museum Press. ISBN 0-921560-03-6 – via The Bermuda Maritime Museum..
^ Hartley, Nick (2012). The Prince of Privateers: Bridger Goodrich and His Family in America, Bermuda and Britain: 1775–1825. M.& M. Baldwin. ISBN 978-0947712518.
^ Shorto, Gavin. "Bermuda in the Privateering Business". The Bermudian. Archived from the original on 2011-07-16. Retrieved 2011-01-21.
^ Offen 2011.
^ Latimer 2009, pp. 85–86.
^ Latimer 2009, p. 86.
^ Latimer 2009, p. 83.
^ Latimer 2009, pp. 89–90.
^ Kupperman 1993, pp. 242–243.
^ Conquista de la Isla de Santa Catalina.
^ Hamshere 1972, pp. 48–49.
^ Latimer 2009, p. 90.
^ a b c Latimer 2009, pp. 90–91.
^ Hamshere 1972, p. 49.
^ Kupperman 1993, p. 250.
^ a b c Carmen Dolores Trelles (1991-01-09). "En busca de Cofresí". El Nuevo Día (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 2013-12-05. Retrieved 2013-11-12.
^ Bracho Palma, Jairo (2005). La defensa marítima en la Capitanía General de Venezuela, 1783–1813. Instituto Nacional de los Espacios Acuáticos e Insulares. p. 87.
^ Cassar, Paul (January–March 1963). "The Maltese Corsairs and the Order of St. John of Jerusalem" (PDF). Scientia. 29 (1): 26–41. Archived from the original (PDF) on 3 February 2016.
^ Carabott, Sarah (2 February 2016). "A history of plundering on high seas". The Times. Archived from the original on 3 February 2016.
^ a b c Privateering and the Private Production of Naval Power, Gary M. Anderson and Adam Gifford Jr.
^ Brewer, John. The Sinews of Power: War, Money, and the English State, 1688–1783. New York.: Alfred A. Knopf, 1989. p. 197
^ "Privateers or Merchant Mariners help win the Revolutionary War". www.usmm.org. Retrieved 6 February 2019.
^ "US Navy Fleet List War of 1812". Archived from the original on January 9, 2009.
^ Oren, Michael B. (2005-11-03). "The Middle East and the Making of the United States, 1776 to 1815". Retrieved 2007-02-18.
^ a b Tabarrok, Alexander (Winter 2007). "The Rise, Fall, and Rise Again of Privateers" (PDF). The Independent Review. Vol. XI, no. 3. pp. 565–577. ISSN 1086-1653.
^ "Annals of Congress Home Page: U.S. Congressional Documents". American Memory - Library of Congress.
^ "12 at Midnight; the Hibernia attempting to run the Comet down". npg.si.edu. Archived from the original on 2019-04-27. Retrieved 2019-04-27.
^ Coggeshall, George (1861). History of the American privateers, and letters-of-marque during our war with England in the years 1812, '13 and '14 interspersed with several naval battles between American and British ships of war. G. Coggeshall. ISBN 0665443757. OCLC 1084236819. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
^ Huntsberry, Thomas Vincent (1983). Maryland privateers, War of 1812. J. Mart. OCLC 16870651.
^ Ramsay (1996), p. 62.
^ Ramsay (1996), p. 69.
^ Ramsay (1996), p. 70.
^ Ramsay (1996), p. 71.
^ Ramsay (1996), p. 77.
^ Ramsay (1996), p. 82.
^ Ingersoll (1852) pp. 82–83
^ Dyer, Brainerd (1934). "Confederate Naval and Privateering Activities in the Pacific". Pacific Historical Review. 3 (4): 433–443. doi:10.2307/3633146. JSTOR 3633146.
^ Hamilton Cochran, Blockade Runners of the Confederacy (U of Alabama Press, 2005).
^ Scott D. Wagner, "Why there was no privateering in the Spanish-American War." International Journal of Naval History 14.1 (2018).
Bibliography[edit]
"Conquista de la Isla de Santa Catalina". Varias relaciones del Perú y Chile: y conquista de la isla de Santa Catalina, 1535 á 1658. Impr. de M. Ginesta. 1879. p. 331. Retrieved 12 September 2012.
Cochran, Hamilton (2005). Blockade Runners of the Confederacy. University of Alabama Press.
Dyer, Brainerd (1934). "Confederate Naval and Privateering Activities in the Pacific". Pacific Historical Review. 3 (4): 433–443. doi:10.2307/3633146. JSTOR 3633146.
Hamshere, Cyril (1972). "Providence". The British in the Caribbean. Harvard University Press. p. 46. Retrieved 2012-09-10.
Ingersoll, Charles Jared (1852). History of the second war between the United States of America and Great Britain: declared by act of Congress, the 18th of June, 1812, and concluded by peace, the 15th of February, 1815. Lippincott, Grambo & Co.
Kupperman, Karen Ordahl (1993). "A Puritan Colony in the Tropics: Providence Island, 1630–1641". Settlements in the Americas: Cross-Cultural Perspectives. University of Delaware Press. ISBN 978-0-87413-411-7. Retrieved 2012-09-09.
Latimer, Jon (2009). Buccaneers of the Caribbean: How Piracy Forged an Empire. Harvard University Press. p. 84. ISBN 978-0-674-03403-7. Retrieved 2012-09-07.
Offen, Karl (March 2011). "La cartografía colonial de Centroamérica y el topónimo 'mosquito'". Asociación para el Fomento de los Estudios Históricos en Centroamérica. Archived from the original on 2018-06-19. Retrieved 2012-09-06.
Ramsay, Jack C. (1996). Jean Laffite: Prince of Pirates. Eakin Press. ISBN 978-1-57168-029-7.
Wagner, Scott D. (2018). "Why there was no privateering in the Spanish-American War". International Journal of Naval History. 14 (1).
Further reading[edit]
Alberto, Edite Maria Conceição Martins. (2019) "A Pious Business: the ransoming of captives in Early Modern Portugal." E-Journal of Portuguese History 17.2 (2019).
Beattie, Tim. (2015). British Privateering Voyages of the Early Eighteenth Century (Boydell. 2015).
Colás, A. (2016). "Barbary Coast in the expansion of international society: Piracy, privateering, and corsairing as primary institutions." Review of International Studies, 42#5: 840–857.
Espersen, Ryan. (2019) "Fifty Shades of Trade: Privateering, Piracy, and Illegal Slave Trading in St. Thomas, Early Nineteenth Century." New West Indian Guide/Nieuwe West-Indische Gids 93.1–2 (2019): 41–68. online
Faye, Kert (1997) Prize and Prejudice Privateering and Naval Prize in Atlantic Canada in the War of 1812. (Research in maritime history, no. 11. St. John's, Nfld: International Maritime Economic History Association).
Haggerty, Sheryllynne. (2018) "Risk, networks and privateering in Liverpool during the Seven Years' War, 1756–1763." International Journal of Maritime History 30.1 (2018): 30–51 online
Head, David (2015) Privateers of the Americas: Spanish American Privateering from the United States in the Early Republic. (Athens, GA: University of Georgia Press). 2015.
Kert, Faye Margaret. (2017) Prize and Prejudice: Privateering and Naval Prize in Atlantic Canada in the War of 1812 (Oxford University Press, 2017).
Krasner, Barbara. (2016) Sir Francis Drake: Privateering Sea Captain and Circumnavigator of the Globe (Rosen, 2016).
Lemnitzer, Jan (2014) Power, Law and the End of Privateering.
Nichols, A. Bryant
Jr. (2007) Captain Christopher Newport: Admiral of Virginia. (Sea Venture).
Rommelse, Gijs. "Privateering as a language of international politics: English and French privateering against the Dutch Republic, 1655–1665." Journal for Maritime Research 17.2 (2015): 183–194.
Ross, Nicholas (2011) "The Provision of Naval Defense in the Early American Republic: A Comparison of the U.S. Navy and Privateers, 1789–1815." The Independent Review 16, no. 3 (Winter).
Smith, Joshua M. (2011) Battle for the Bay: The Naval War of 1812. (Fredericton, NB: Goose Lane Editions).
van Nieuwenhuize, Hielke. (2017) "Prize law, international diplomacy and the treatment of foreign prizes in the seventeenth century: a case study." Comparative legal history 5.1 (2017): 142–161.
Wold, Atle L. (2020) "After the Closure of the Ports in 1799." in Privateering and Diplomacy, 1793–1807. (Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, 2020) pp. 213–228.
Primary sources[edit]
Andrews, K.R. ed. (2017). English Privateering Voyages to the West Indies, 1588–1595: Documents relating to English voyages to the West Indies, from the defeat of the Armada to the last voyage of Sir Francis Drake, including Spanish documents contributed by Irene A. Wright (Taylor & Francis).
Privateering and Piracy in the Colonial Period: Illustrative Documents at Project Gutenberg ed. by Jameson, John Franklin.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Privateers.
Andrew Sherburne's Experiences on a Privateer During the Revolutionary War
Commerce Raiding: Historical Case Studies, 1755–2009 Naval War College
The Gentleman's Magazine, and Historical Chronicle, Volume 49 1779 account of capture of "Weymouth" Packet by privateer General Sullivan; the "Weymouth" was later recaptured by The Rawlinson and the Clarendon, of Liverpool recaptured off the Land's End; see Willams, Gomer "History of the Liverpool Privateers and Letters of Marque: With an Account …
vtePiracyPeriods
Ancient Mediterranean
Golden Age
21st century
2022
2023
2024
2025
Types of pirate
Albanian piracy
Anglo-Turkish piracy
Baltic Slavic pirates
Barbary pirates (corsairs)
Algiers
Brethren of the Coast
Buccaneers
Cilician pirates
Child pirate
Cossack pirates
Filibusters
French corsairs
Jewish pirates
Moro pirates
Narentines
Privateers
Confederate
River pirate
Sea Beggars
Sea Dogs
Sindhi corsairs
Timber pirate
Ushkuyniks
Uskoks
Vikings
Victual Brothers
Wokou
Women in piracy
AreasAtlantic World
Caribbean
British Virgin Islands
Spanish Main
Lake Nicaragua
Venezuela
Gulf of Guinea
Indian Ocean
Horn of Africa
Somali Coast
Indonesia
Persian Gulf
Strait of Malacca
Nosy Boraha
Other waters
Baltic Slavic piracy
Barbary Coast
Falcon Lake
South China Coast
Sulu Sea
Pirate havensand bases
Barataria Bay
Flying Gang
Île Sainte-Marie
Libertatia
Lundy
Mamora
Port Royal
Republic of Salé
Saint Augustin
Saint-Malo
Tortuga
Major figuresPirates
Abduwali Muse
Abraham Samuel
Abshir Boyah
Adam Baldridge
Albert W. Hicks
Alexandre Exquemelin
Alfhild
Anne Bonny
Anne Dieu-le-Veut
António de Faria
Artemisia I of Caria
Bartholomew Roberts
Bartolomeu Português
Benito de Soto
Benjamin Hornigold
Black Caesar
Blackbeard
Bully Hayes
Cai Qian
Charles Gibbs
Charlotte Badger
Charlotte de Berry
Cheung Po Tsai
Christina Anna Skytte
Chui A-poo
Dan Seavey
Diabolito
Dido
Dirk Chivers
Dominique You
Edward England
Edward Low
Eli Boggs
Elise Eskilsdotter
Mary Lindsey
Eustace the Monk
Flora Burn
Francis Drake
François Le Clerc
François l'Olonnais
Fūma Kotarō
Gan Ning
Grace O'Malley
Hayreddin Barbarossa
Hendrick Lucifer
Henri Caesar
Henry Every
Henry Morgan
Henry Strangways
Hippolyte Bouchard
Huang Bamei
Israel Hands
Jacquotte Delahaye
Jan Janszoon
Jean Lafitte
Jeanne de Clisson
Johanna Hård
John Hawkins
John Hoar
John Newland Maffitt
John Pro
John Rackham
Joseph Baker
Joseph Barss
José Joaquim Almeida
Jørgen Jørgensen
Klaus Störtebeker
Lai Choi San
Laurens de Graaf
Lawrence Prince
Liang Daoming
Limahong
Lo Hon-cho
Louis-Michel Aury
Mansel Alcantra
Manuel Ribeiro Pardal
Martin Frobisher
Mary Critchett
Mary Read
Mary Wolverston
Michel de Grammont
Moses Cohen Henriques
Nathaniel Gordon
Ng Akew
Nicholas van Hoorn
Olivier Levasseur
Redbeard
Pedro Gilbert
Peter Easton
Pierre Lafitte
Piet Pieterszoon Hein
Princess Sela
Rachel Wall
Rahmah ibn Jabir al-Jalhami
Richard Glover
Richard Taylor
Robert Culliford
Robert Surcouf
Roberto Cofresí
Roche Braziliano
Rusla
Sadie Farrell
Samuel Bellamy
Samuel Hall Lord
Samuel Mason
Samuel Pallache
Sayyida al Hurra
Shap-ng-tsai
Shirahama Kenki
Simon Mascarino
Sister Ping
Stede Bonnet
Teuta
Thomas Cavendish
Thomas Tew
Veborg
Victual Brothers
Vincenzo Gambi
Wang Zhi
William Dampier
William Kidd
Zheng Jing
Zheng Qi
Zheng Yi
Zheng Yi Sao
Zheng Zhilong
Piratehunters
Angelo Emo
Chaloner Ogle
David Porter
Duarte Pacheco Pereira
James Brooke
Julius Caesar
Jose Campuzano-Polanco
Luis Fajardo
Miguel Enríquez
Pedro Menéndez de Avilés
Pompey
Richard Avery Hornsby
Robert Maynard
Thomas Warren
Woodes Rogers
Pirate ships
Adventure Galley
Ambrose Light
Fancy
Flying Dutchman
Ganj-i-Sawai
Queen Anne's Revenge
Quedagh Merchant
Marquis of Havana
My Revenge
Royal Fortune
Saladin
Whydah Gally
York
Pirate battles and incidents
1582 Cagayan battles
1985 Lahad Datu ambush
Action of 9 November 1822
Action of 28 October 2007
Action of 11 November 2008
Action of 9 April 2009
Action of 23 March 2010
Action of 1 April 2010
Action of 5 April 2010
Anti-piracy in the Aegean
Antelope incident
Anti-piracy in the West Indies
Attack on Veracruz
Balanguingui Expedition
Battle of Boca Teacapan
Battle of Cape Fear River
Battle of Cape Lopez
Battle of Doro Passage
Battle of Mandab Strait
Battle of Manila
Battle off Minicoy Island
Battle off Mukah
Battle of Nam Quan
Battle of New Orleans
Battle of Ocracoke Inlet
Battle of Pianosa
Battle of the Leotung
Battle of the Tiger's Mouth
Battle of Tonkin River
Battle of Ty-ho Bay
Battle of Tysami
Beluga Nomination incident
Blockade of Charleston (Vane)
Chepo Expedition
Capture of the Ambrose Light
Capture of John Rackham
Capture of the schooner Bravo
Capture of the schooner Fancy
Capture of the sloop Anne
Carré d'As IV incident
Dai Hong Dan incident
Falklands Expedition
Great Lakes Patrol
Irene incident
Jiajing wokou raids
Maersk Alabama hijacking
MT Zafirah hijacking
MT Orkim Harmony hijacking
MV Moscow University hijacking
North Star affair
Operation Enduring Freedom – HOA
Operation Atalanta
Operation Dawn of Gulf of Aden
Operation Dawn 8: Gulf of Aden
Operation Ocean Shield
Persian Gulf Campaign
Pirate attacks in Borneo
Quest incident
Raid on Cartagena
Sack of Baltimore
Sack of Campeche
Salvador Pirates
Slave raid of Suðuroy
Turkish AbductionsPiracy law
Acts of grace (1717–1718 Acts of Grace)
International piracy law
Letter of marque
Paris Declaration Respecting Maritime Law
Piracy Act (1536, 1698, 1717, 1721, 1837, 1850)
Piracy Law of 1820
Slave trade
African slave trade
African Slave Trade Patrol
Amistad Incident
Atlantic slave trade
Baltic slave trade
Barbary slave trade
Blockade of Africa
Capture of the Veloz Passagera
Capture of the brig Brillante
Indian Ocean slave trade
Trans-Saharan slave trade
Pirates inpopularcultureFictional pirates
Askeladd
Tom Ayrton
Barbe Rouge
Brook
Captain Birdseye
Captain Blood
Captain Crook
Captain Flint
Captain Hook
Captain Nemo
Captain Pugwash
Captain Sabertooth
Captain Stingaree
Charlotte de Berry
Davy Jones
Edward Kenway
Elaine Marley
Elizabeth Swann
Franky
Guybrush Threepwood
Hector Barbossa
Jack Sparrow
Jacquotte Delahaye
José Gaspar
Joshamee Gibbs
Long John Silver
Monkey D. Luffy
Vaas Montenegro
Mr. Smee
Nami
Nico Robin
Roronoa Zoro
Sandokan
Sanji
Tony Tony Chopper
Usopp
Will Turner
Yellowbeard
Zanzibar
Novels
The Pirate
The Pilot: A Tale of the Sea
Treasure Island
Facing the Flag
On Stranger Tides
Jim Hawkins and the Curse of Treasure Island
Castaways of the Flying Dutchman
The Angel's Command
Voyage of Slaves
Long John Silver
Pirate Latitudes
Mistress of the Seas
Silver: Return to Treasure Island
Tropes
Buried treasure
Davy Jones's locker
Eyepatch
Jolly Roger
Bloody flag
Crossed Swords Jolly Roger
Flag of Blackbeard
Old Roger
Straw Hat Pirates' Jolly Roger
skull and crossbones
Keelhauling
Marooning
No purchase, no pay
Pegleg
Pet parrot
Pirate code
Pirate utopia
Treasure map
Walking the plank
Miscellaneous
Air pirate
Space pirate
International Talk Like a Pirate Day
Pirates versus Ninjas
Miscellaneous
A General History of the Pyrates
Captain Charles Johnson
Truce of Ratisbon
Pirate Round
Mutiny
Matelotage
Piracy kidnappings
Lists
Pirates
Pirate films and TV series
Privateers
List of ships attacked by Somali pirates
Timeline of piracy
Women in piracy
Piracy portal
Category
Authority control databases InternationalGNDNationalUnited StatesJapanCzech RepublicIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Privateer&oldid=1306028340"
Categories: PrivateersNaval warfareCombat occupationsObsolete occupationsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from October 2022CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)CS1 errors: ISBN dateArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2020Articles with unsourced statements from October 2022Articles containing Italian-language textArticles needing additional references from August 2023All articles needing additional referencesArticles with unsourced statements from November 2008Articles with Project Gutenberg linksCommons category link is on Wikidata
This page was last edited on 15 August 2025, at 13:58 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Privateer
52 languages
Add topic