Microsoft: Exchange 2016 and 2019 reach end of support in 30 days
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
OpenAI's new GPT-5 Codex model takes on Claude Code
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
FinWise insider breach impacts 689K American First Finance customers
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft: Exchange 2016 and 2019 reach end of support in 30 days
Microsoft: Exchange 2016 and 2019 reach end of support in 30 days
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 15, 2025
01:04 PM
0
​Microsoft has reminded administrators again that Exchange 2016 and Exchange 2019 will reach the end of extended support next month and has provided guidance for decommissioning outdated servers.
According to the company's product lifecycle website, Exchange 2016 reached mainstream end date in October 2020, while Exchange 2019's mainstream support ended on January 9, 2024.
Microsoft also reminded customers in January that Exchange Server 2016 and 2019 will reach the end of support in October.
After October 14, Microsoft will cease providing technical support, including bug fixes for newly discovered issues that may impact the usability and stability of outdated servers.
The company will also stop issuing time zone updates and security fixes for vulnerabilities that may expose servers to security breaches.
"On October 14, 2025, one month from now, Exchange Server 2016 and Exchange Server 2019 will reach end of support. It's critical to upgrade now to remain supported and secure," the Exchange Server engineering team warned over the weekend.
"Customer installations of Exchange 2016 and Exchange 2019 will continue to run after October 14, 2025. However, continuing to use these offerings after the end-of-support date invites potential security risks, so we strongly recommend taking action now."
Microsoft recommends that administrators migrate to Exchange Online (available as a standalone service or as an Office 365 subscription) or upgrade to Exchange Server Subscription Edition (SE).
Admins can perform an in-place upgrade from Exchange Server 2019 to Exchange Server SE, with the process being identical to installing a Cumulative Update (CU).
Those who still have servers running Exchange 2016 and 2013 are advised to upgrade to Exchange Server SE or first install Exchange 2019, respectively.
"If you are running Exchange 2016, we recommend that you perform a legacy (a.k.a. side-by-side) upgrade to Exchange Server SE and do an in-place upgrade to Exchange Server SE when it is available," Microsoft added.
" If you still have Exchange Server 2013 or earlier in your organization, you must first remove it before you can install Exchange Server 2019 CU15 or upgrade to Exchange Server SE."
The company's documentation site provides detailed Microsoft 365 migration guidance for global admins and can help them decide the best Exchange Online migration path.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 daysWindows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 daysMicrosoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in two monthsWindows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in NovemberMicrosoft warns of high-severity flaw in hybrid Exchange deployments
End of Support
Exchange
Microsoft
Microsoft Exchange
Warning
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
Sponsor Posts
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
How to tell if your organization’s credentials have been exposed?
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT