This underrated iOS 26 feature gave me a productivity boost (and it works on older iPhones) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
This underrated iOS 26 feature gave me a productivity boost (and it works on older iPhones)
It's more reliable than the competition and saves me a lot of time.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 3:42 a.m. PT
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysApple's Add to Calendar lets you create events with one tap from screenshots.It doesn't hallucinate and is more accurate than similar Android features.You can use the feature on every iPhone compatible with iOS 26.I struggle to find genuinely helpful artificial intelligence features in daily life. Sure, removing unwanted objects from my photos is nice to have, but most other AI capabilities on recent phones have been one-time party tricks at best. Unlike one of those features, I found a handy use case with Galaxy AI on the Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra last year. A similar capability is now making its way to your iPhone with iOS 26. The feature I'm talking about is the one-tap Add to Calendar feature. Also: I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this timeIn my 24 hours with the iPhone 17 Pro Max, I've found the feature to be more useful and polished than expected. I'd been testing this feature on my iPhone 15 Pro in the developer beta, and it has gotten more intuitive in the stable iOS 26 build. As a freelancer who needs to coordinate with multiple people across apps and time zones for deadlines and meetings, adding things to my calendar helps me block my time and be more organized. You usually need to add things manually to your Calendar app, which can be time-consuming. After all, it adds up if you're doing this task multiple times per day. I struggle with this manual approach, and that is why it feels refreshing to have this ability just a tap away.
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETApple's Add to Calendar feature is part of Visual Intelligence. All you need to do is take a screenshot of an event invite, and AI will suggest the "Add to Calendar" prompt. Tap on it, and it creates an event, which you can edit or add to your Calendar. For instance, I received a Diwali party invite with date, time, and place details. I took a screenshot, tapped the Add to Calendar option, and the feature added the exact details of the event to my Calendar app. No edits needed.While it blocked an hour of my time when the invite stated "7 pm onwards," I don't mind this minor error for casual outings like this. I couldn't include screenshots in this article of more sensitive material, such as embargo and meeting details, but the feature also gets those time slots correct. Again, with no edits needed. Also: This handy Apple Intelligence feature saves me over $200 a yearThe feature is more impressive than expected, as similar capabilities on the best Android phones tend to get a few details wrong.How to use the Add to Calendar feature in Visual Intelligence on your iPhone
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETTo add an event using Visual Intelligence on your Apple device, you need to have an iPhone that runs iOS 26. Once your device is updated, here's how you can use the feature:Open the invite or event you need to add to your Calendar app.Take a screenshot of your screen, with all details, such as time, date, and place, visible.Apple Intelligence will now suggest an Add to Calendar option. Tap on it.You should get a pop-up with event details in the Calendar with two options: Edit or Create Event. Tap on Create Event, and it will be added to your Calendar app. The best part of the feature is that these screenshots don't clutter your Photos as your iPhone won't save them if you tap on the close (x button) in the top-left corner. In case you want to save the screenshot, you can tap on the tick (top-right corner) and find it later in your Photos app. Also: The surprising ways AI helps strong dev teams and hurts weak ones, according to GoogleI find Galaxy AI's sidebar implementation for AI Select more intuitive because I don't have to press the phone's buttons. However, unlike its competitors, Apple's Add to Calendar feature doesn't hallucinate and consistently gets the day, time, and place correct. This reliability is what makes the iPhone feature stand out from its rivals and makes me use it frequently.The Cupertino company's take on Add to Calendar is the first AI productivity feature on any phone that I can trust in terms of reliability. It's one that I don't need to double-check. I still do, of course, because the feature uses AI (and I've missed two meetings in the past while testing similar tools), but I hope this success makes me trust AI more over time.Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)
This iOS 26 feature makes your screenshots so much more useful - here's how it works
My favorite iOS 26 feature answers unknown calls so I don't have to - here's how
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use