The best CRM software 2025: Streamline your customer relationships | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: July 31, 2025 at 3:15 AM PDT
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Updated on: July 31, 2025 at 3:15 AM PDT
The best CRM software: The best customer relationships software solutions, ranked
Our favorite scalable options suit small businesses to the enterprise and can help your team efficiently handle customer relationships, sales, lead management, and more.
Written by
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Reviewed by
Edward Moyer
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Salesforce Starter CRM | Best CRM software overall
Best CRM software overall
Salesforce Starter CRM
View now View at Salesforce Apptivo CRM | Best CRM software for customization
Best CRM software for customization
Apptivo CRM
View now View at Apptivo Pipedrive | Best CRM software for sales management
Best CRM software for sales management
Pipedrive
View now View at Pipedrive HubSpot | Best free CRM software for small businesses
Best free CRM software for small businesses
HubSpot
View now View at HubSpot Microsoft Dynamics CRM | Best CRM software for the Microsoft ecosystem
Best CRM software for the Microsoft ecosystem
Microsoft Dynamics CRM
View now View at Microsoft
Monday.com
Monday.com
View now View at Monday.com Capsule CRM
Capsule CRM
View now View at Capsule CRM Salesmate
Salesmate
View now View at Salesmate
Show more (3 items)
Today's
services software Deals*
20% Off Privacy Protection Plans With Code "PARTNER20":  $536 (save $134)
Exclusive Deal: 55% Off Incogni Individual Annual Plan With Code "ZDNET":  $162 (save $198) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Customer relationship management, or CRM, software can manage and track customer relationships, trends, marketing efforts, and communication, bringing everything into one centralized platform or system to optimize interactions. It may also be used to document and pursue leads and sales pipelines.Automation is one of the key benefits of CRM software but depending on the type of solution you opt for, you may also be able to harness AI, analytics, collaborative tools, and advanced features that streamline your business operations. Software ranges from enterprise-ready Salesforce solutions to HubSpot's packages for small and medium-sized businesses.  What is the best CRM software right now?My top recommendation for CRM software is Salesforce Starter CRM. Salesforce Starter CRM is well-suited for businesses just entering the CRM world, as well as larger, experienced organizations that require advanced automation, AI, and platform customization. Payment options are simple for small and large businesses alike, with packages starting at $25 per user per month. Alternatively, if you're looking for a sales-focused platform, consider Pipedrive, beginning at only $14 per seat per month.Also: The best password managers for businesses: Expert testedZDNET has monitored the CRM software market for decades, and we keep an eye on business trends, CRM development, and changing customer requirements to provide you with the best CRM solutions to consider today. Read on to explore all our recommendations for the best CRM software of 2025.
Sort by
All
The best CRM software of 2025 Show less
View now at Salesforce Salesforce Starter CRM is my top choice for businesses looking to adopt a CRM platform in 2025. Why we like it: It's an excellent solution for starting out in the CRM world or for experienced users looking to transition to an advanced CRM. The Salesforce Starter CRM package comes with almost everything you could want to kick-start your journey with the software. Features available from the outset include account, contact, task, and lead management. It also includes Salesforce Meetings, marketing and email templates, campaign assistance, data analytics, e-commerce website design, onboarding, and payment facilitation.Recently, Salesforce launched a new
to improve AI agents used to help human productivity.Who it's for: Businesses of any size, large or small. I like the simple nature of Salesforce plans, with one option for small and midsize businesses and another for enterprises, priced at $25 and $100 per user per month, respectively.Who should look elsewhere: Many Salesforce Starter CRM customers are impressed with the services offered, though some note the high price for enterprise users. Some features, including advanced automation and access to AppExchange -- the Salesforce app marketplace -- are limited to premium subscribers. There also isn't a middle ground plan between the Starter and Pro Suites, and this might deter some people. Microsoft Dynamics CRM could be a great alternative. Salesforce Starter CRM features: Range of management tools | Online payments | Web design help | Data analytics | Automation | AI | Customizable | Starter and Pro plans | Free trial
Pros
Learning guidance provided
Extensive CRM tool options
Payment management and support
AI campaign, sales tools
Cons
The highest tier is expensive and likely outside the reach of startups
No midrange plan
Salesforce Starter CRM Best CRM software overall
Salesforce Starter CRM is my top choice for businesses looking to adopt a CRM platform in 2025. Why we like it: It's an excellent solution for starting out in the CRM world or for experienced users looking to transition to an advanced CRM. The Salesforce Starter CRM package comes with almost everything you could want to kick-start your journey with the software. Features available from the outset include account, contact, task, and lead management. It also includes Salesforce Meetings, marketing and email templates, campaign assistance, data analytics, e-commerce website design, onboarding, and payment facilitation.Recently, Salesforce launched a new
to improve AI agents used to help human productivity.Who it's for: Businesses of any size, large or small. I like the simple nature of Salesforce plans, with one option for small and midsize businesses and another for enterprises, priced at $25 and $100 per user per month, respectively.Who should look elsewhere: Many Salesforce Starter CRM customers are impressed with the services offered, though some note the high price for enterprise users. Some features, including advanced automation and access to AppExchange -- the Salesforce app marketplace -- are limited to premium subscribers. There also isn't a middle ground plan between the Starter and Pro Suites, and this might deter some people. Microsoft Dynamics CRM could be a great alternative. Salesforce Starter CRM features: Range of management tools | Online payments | Web design help | Data analytics | Automation | AI | Customizable | Starter and Pro plans | Free trial
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Apptivo More than 200,000 businesses worldwide use Apptivo CRM, a top choice for organizations prioritizing customization, but that's not only why this made my top CRMs list.Why we like it: Apptivo emphasizes customization and third-party integrations, providing organizations with an extensive feature catalog. This includes sales cycle management tools, contact and lead management, workflow automation, sales dashboards, report generation, e-signatures, and payment gateways -- suiting everyone from remote firms to companies with large teams in the field. Apptivo's platform can integrate with various popular enterprise software suites including QuickBooks, PayPal, Stripe, Google tools, Microsoft Office 365, Sign.co, Slack, and RingCentral. This range allows users to create a productivity pipeline on one platform. With over 50 apps available, up to 350 custom fields, and up to 50 custom dashboards, this option has productivity at its heart and is suitable for enterprise use. Who it's for: Apptivo CRM plans start at $20 per seat per month, making it a great option for a sales-focused CRM platform with high customization levels tailored to your business needs. For more advanced functions, large teams will need the Ultimate plan at $50 per user per month.Who should look elsewhere: Many Apptivo CRM customers say this CRM provides value for money and is very flexible and customizable, although some users report that the user interface could be streamlined and made more efficient. So, if you're looking for a solution that simply works out of the box without tweaks, consider Pipedrive.Apptivo CRM features: Workflow automation | Sales pipeline management | Third-party integrations | Contacts | Invoicing | Data analytics | Reporting | Free trial
Pros
More customizable than many rivals
Flexible
Range of useful integrations
Custom dashboards
Cons
No free plan available
A fairly steep learning curve
Apptivo CRM Best CRM software for customization
More than 200,000 businesses worldwide use Apptivo CRM, a top choice for organizations prioritizing customization, but that's not only why this made my top CRMs list.Why we like it: Apptivo emphasizes customization and third-party integrations, providing organizations with an extensive feature catalog. This includes sales cycle management tools, contact and lead management, workflow automation, sales dashboards, report generation, e-signatures, and payment gateways -- suiting everyone from remote firms to companies with large teams in the field. Apptivo's platform can integrate with various popular enterprise software suites including QuickBooks, PayPal, Stripe, Google tools, Microsoft Office 365, Sign.co, Slack, and RingCentral. This range allows users to create a productivity pipeline on one platform. With over 50 apps available, up to 350 custom fields, and up to 50 custom dashboards, this option has productivity at its heart and is suitable for enterprise use. Who it's for: Apptivo CRM plans start at $20 per seat per month, making it a great option for a sales-focused CRM platform with high customization levels tailored to your business needs. For more advanced functions, large teams will need the Ultimate plan at $50 per user per month.Who should look elsewhere: Many Apptivo CRM customers say this CRM provides value for money and is very flexible and customizable, although some users report that the user interface could be streamlined and made more efficient. So, if you're looking for a solution that simply works out of the box without tweaks, consider Pipedrive.Apptivo CRM features: Workflow automation | Sales pipeline management | Third-party integrations | Contacts | Invoicing | Data analytics | Reporting | Free trial
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Pipedrive Pipedrive is my top CRM option for businesses focused on sales management and lead generation.Why we like it: The name may give it away somewhat, as the Pipedrive CRM platform has been developed to streamline and improve sales processes. To name but a few features available to help organizations reach their sales goals, you can manage sales leads, contacts, pipelines, and email marketing yourself, and you can also automate sales-related tasks such as follow-up emails and call scheduling.  There's also an AI-based sales assistant worth exploring, as well as report generation and task scheduling. Another interesting feature is a system that rates how "hot" a lead is, based on publicly available data. Pipedrive recently released , a sales prospecting toolkit for small businesses looking to automate and streamline pipelines.Who it's for: Business users who want to revitalize their existing customer relationship management processes with a fresh approach to sales and retention. Pipedrive customers also say there isn't a steep learning curve, and they report that the service is backed by solid customer support.You can take advantage of a 14-day trial. Paid plans start at $14 per seat per month for the Lite package. To experience the full benefit of this CRM for sales, I'd recommend the professional, Premium plan at $49 per seat per month.Who should look elsewhere: Interested parties who aren't heavily focused on sales. If you want, for instance, more advanced employee task management, online meeting capabilities, or to explore AI, consider Salesforce.Pipedrive features: Sales functions, automation | Contract management | Video calling | AI sales assistant | Project planning | Free trial
Pros
User friendly
Intuitive
Customizable dashboards, tool usage
Extensive range of sales functions
Multiple subscription options
Cons
Highest tier is $99 per seat, monthly
AI limited to premium subscriptions
Pipedrive Best CRM software for sales management
Pipedrive is my top CRM option for businesses focused on sales management and lead generation.Why we like it: The name may give it away somewhat, as the Pipedrive CRM platform has been developed to streamline and improve sales processes. To name but a few features available to help organizations reach their sales goals, you can manage sales leads, contacts, pipelines, and email marketing yourself, and you can also automate sales-related tasks such as follow-up emails and call scheduling.  There's also an AI-based sales assistant worth exploring, as well as report generation and task scheduling. Another interesting feature is a system that rates how "hot" a lead is, based on publicly available data. Pipedrive recently released , a sales prospecting toolkit for small businesses looking to automate and streamline pipelines.Who it's for: Business users who want to revitalize their existing customer relationship management processes with a fresh approach to sales and retention. Pipedrive customers also say there isn't a steep learning curve, and they report that the service is backed by solid customer support.You can take advantage of a 14-day trial. Paid plans start at $14 per seat per month for the Lite package. To experience the full benefit of this CRM for sales, I'd recommend the professional, Premium plan at $49 per seat per month.Who should look elsewhere: Interested parties who aren't heavily focused on sales. If you want, for instance, more advanced employee task management, online meeting capabilities, or to explore AI, consider Salesforce.Pipedrive features: Sales functions, automation | Contract management | Video calling | AI sales assistant | Project planning | Free trial
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at HubSpot HubSpot is an excellent option for small businesses and projects because you can start learning for free and scale up as you require. Why we like it: HubSpot is a great way to learn how CRM software can benefit your business. You can take advantage of the HubSpot free plan, which requires only an email address sign-up and a short verification process. While testing out this CRM, I found the walk-through and guides to different parts of the platform very useful. If you're unsure how to use a CRM platform, HubSpot will point you in the right direction, and its tutorials will help you learn about each section without too much stress. You can use HubSpot for a variety of tasks, such as organizing and managing marketing, customer contact records, website development, and customer support, among many other use cases.  Paid plans begin at $15 per seat per month for starter plans, which I consider affordable and a good value for the money. However, subscriptions to advanced plans quickly escalate in price. Recently, HubSpot
a deep research connector with ChatGPT for business predictions and analytics, alongside a connector for Anthropic's , a chatbot AI assistant.Who it's for: This is a fair solution with a free tier if you're new to the CRM world, with many smaller outfits reporting that they're happy with the system. However, some also note that the costs can quickly escalate if you want advanced features.Who should look elsewhere: Though you'll find that the basic, free CRM can be used for tasks such as contact management and email marketing, some things are limited to paid plans, including features like automation, sales lead generation, and helpdesk functions, as well as some reporting options. So, if you later feel like you need these options, you'll either need to upgrade or look elsewhere.HubSpot features: Different workspaces | Website help | Dashboards | Contact sync | Tutorials | App marketplace | Free plan, 14-day trial
Pros
Clean user interface
Useful guides
Free plan
Affordable starter plan at $15 per seat, monthly
Cons
Costs can quickly escalate for bolt-ons
Reports of poor customer service
HubSpot Best free CRM software for small businesses
HubSpot is an excellent option for small businesses and projects because you can start learning for free and scale up as you require. Why we like it: HubSpot is a great way to learn how CRM software can benefit your business. You can take advantage of the HubSpot free plan, which requires only an email address sign-up and a short verification process. While testing out this CRM, I found the walk-through and guides to different parts of the platform very useful. If you're unsure how to use a CRM platform, HubSpot will point you in the right direction, and its tutorials will help you learn about each section without too much stress. You can use HubSpot for a variety of tasks, such as organizing and managing marketing, customer contact records, website development, and customer support, among many other use cases.  Paid plans begin at $15 per seat per month for starter plans, which I consider affordable and a good value for the money. However, subscriptions to advanced plans quickly escalate in price. Recently, HubSpot
a deep research connector with ChatGPT for business predictions and analytics, alongside a connector for Anthropic's , a chatbot AI assistant.Who it's for: This is a fair solution with a free tier if you're new to the CRM world, with many smaller outfits reporting that they're happy with the system. However, some also note that the costs can quickly escalate if you want advanced features.Who should look elsewhere: Though you'll find that the basic, free CRM can be used for tasks such as contact management and email marketing, some things are limited to paid plans, including features like automation, sales lead generation, and helpdesk functions, as well as some reporting options. So, if you later feel like you need these options, you'll either need to upgrade or look elsewhere.HubSpot features: Different workspaces | Website help | Dashboards | Contact sync | Tutorials | App marketplace | Free plan, 14-day trial
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Microsoft Fans of the Microsoft ecosystem may prefer to adopt a CRM solution directly from the Microsoft marketplace. Why we like it: It isn't a typical CRM in the sense of its structure, unlike other options on this list. It's worth mentioning that the Microsoft Dynamics 365 applications portfolio includes a range of CRM and sales-related apps worth exploring.For example, you could sign up for Microsoft's Dynamics 365 Sales and Dynamics 365 Customer Insights to drive forward leads, implement sales automation, unify customer data, and manage customer journeys. You could also use the Dynamics 365 Customer Service platform for customer case management and to launch an AI-backed customer support center.Who it's for: If flexibility and the option to pick and choose various services from a range of CRM and software experts appeal to you -- whether as standalone products or those deliberately selected to fit existing infrastructure -- the Microsoft Dynamics CRM marketplace is worth exploring. Customers like the flexibility of the Microsoft Dynamics platform with its range of add-ons and services. Pricing varies depending on the software licenses you want to adopt, and you can take advantage of the trials on offer before commitment. Who should look elsewhere: This might not be suitable if you need a full, off-the-shelf CRM solution. Instead, consider one of my other top recommendations.Microsoft Dynamics CRM features: Range of sales and CRM solutions | Flexible | Modular | Scalable | Various plans available | Free trials
Pros
Variety of solutions
Flexible
Operates in the Microsoft ecosystem
Highly scalable
Cons
Some solutions can be expensive
Some users report cumbersome integration
Microsoft Dynamics CRM Best CRM software for the Microsoft ecosystem
Fans of the Microsoft ecosystem may prefer to adopt a CRM solution directly from the Microsoft marketplace. Why we like it: It isn't a typical CRM in the sense of its structure, unlike other options on this list. It's worth mentioning that the Microsoft Dynamics 365 applications portfolio includes a range of CRM and sales-related apps worth exploring.For example, you could sign up for Microsoft's Dynamics 365 Sales and Dynamics 365 Customer Insights to drive forward leads, implement sales automation, unify customer data, and manage customer journeys. You could also use the Dynamics 365 Customer Service platform for customer case management and to launch an AI-backed customer support center.Who it's for: If flexibility and the option to pick and choose various services from a range of CRM and software experts appeal to you -- whether as standalone products or those deliberately selected to fit existing infrastructure -- the Microsoft Dynamics CRM marketplace is worth exploring. Customers like the flexibility of the Microsoft Dynamics platform with its range of add-ons and services. Pricing varies depending on the software licenses you want to adopt, and you can take advantage of the trials on offer before commitment. Who should look elsewhere: This might not be suitable if you need a full, off-the-shelf CRM solution. Instead, consider one of my other top recommendations.Microsoft Dynamics CRM features: Range of sales and CRM solutions | Flexible | Modular | Scalable | Various plans available | Free trials
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less What is the best CRM software?
To help decide which CRM solution is right for you, consider the following options:CRM providerCostCustomizable?Third-party integration?AI?Salesforce$25 and up per seat per monthYesYesYesApptivo CRM$20 and up per seat per monthYesYesNoPipedrive$14 and up per seat per monthYesYesYes, limited by planHubSpotFree; $15 and up per seat per monthYes, limitedYesYes, limited by planMicrosoft Dynamics 365Licensing variesN/AYesYes, modules
Show more
Which is the right CRM software for you?
Choose this CRM provider...If you want or need...SalesforceThe best CRM software overall. Salesforce boasts the features required by small businesses as well as the enterprise. It also utilizes AI, and it's highly customizable.Apptivo CRMA customizable CRM. Apptivo is best suited for small and medium-sized businesses looking for a feature-rich CRM with a solid third-party extension library.PipedriveA sales-focused CRM. Pipedrive can help jump-start sales, and it's also a great option for managing multiple pipelines. HubSpotA CRM software package suitable for small businesses. HubSpot offers a free, basic plan and more for sales-lead generation.Microsoft Dynamics 365CRM-related modules in the Microsoft environment. It's not a traditional, central CRM, but this flexibility might work for some users.
Show more
How did I choose these CRM software providers?
When I selected our top recommendations for the best CRM software providers of 2025, I considered the following factors:Scalability: Today's CRM platforms must be able to scale up to meet the changing demands and needs of their clients. Each of the top recommendations listed offers scalable plans and subscriptions. Customization: Many organizations today want to be able to customize their CRM platforms, depending on their industry and use cases. It's important that our top recommendations offer a range of customization features. Features: Businesses expect a wide portfolio of features in their CRM suites. These may include automation, deal and sales management, support channel setups, AI, predictive analytics, and team collaboration tools. Automation: CRM software providers must offer automation tools to appeal to small and medium-sized businesses and the enterprise. Automation offerings I like to see include workflow management and support functions. Support: It's important that CRM providers have a range of channels that business customers can use for support, no matter their size. I've included solutions that provide customer support over email, chat, live help, and the phone.Customer experiences: I've extensively researched the feedback and experiences of new and long-term customers of each of the CRM software providers I've recommended, and I keep an eye on any changes. Cost: CRM software can be a valuable tool for growth, analytics, and managing customer and client relationships, but it must also offer a good return on investment. With this in mind, I've included a range of solutions suitable for different budgets.
Show more
What are the major types of CRM software?
Though the overall classifications of different types of CRM software vary from vendor to vendor, the same themes appear. You may want to research the major types of CRM before you make a purchase decision, as that may influence how your business grows. Operational: Most modern CRM platforms offer some kind of operational mechanism or module. Operational CRMs tend to focus on optimizing business operations, including sales processes, logistics, and customer communications. Operational CRMs may be particularly useful for startups and small and midsize businesses looking to scale. Analytical/data-driven: Other CRMs focus on the intrinsic value of data. Businesses able to handle, securely store, and analyze customer data -- always useful if held in a centralized, organized platform -- can draw insights and see patterns that may influence their future sales activities or reveal new revenue streams. Furthermore, data-driven CRMs may reveal ways to improve customer relationships and retention. Collaborative: Collaborative CRMs provide organizations with a way to enhance collaboration and productivity. CRM suites can be used to create department channels and data repositories, allowing different teams to work together and to share information. For instance, a sales team could collaborate with marketing and finance to create new customer promotions and campaigns. Customer service teams, too, can access important records to track customer journeys and resolve issues.
Show more
How to integrate CRM software into your business efficiently
Every business has unique CRM requirements, and the solution you select will depend on the needs of your organization. Below are some basic recommendations for integrating your new CRM software effectively:Plan and assess: Research and assess the needs of your business and whether the CRM solution you're considering will provide a return on your investment. Consider the type of CRM you need, your primary reason for using a CRM, how many seats you'll need, and whether you need collaborative functions to integrate the CRM with different departments, such as marketing or customer service. Existing systems: Consider whether there are existing, legacy systems that the CRM will replace. If there are apps you want the CRM to integrate with, you may also need to check compatibility requirements and support. It may also be important to create new policies, especially around data and security. Integrations and downtime: There are various tactics you can use for integrating a new CRM with existing systems, apps, and data silos. Though quick-and-dirty code changes and bridges are an option, as well as standalone CRM integration software, we recommend that you also explore the use of robust APIs that won't cause interoperability issues down the line. Testing: Testing adds yet another step to integration processes, but it's imperative that comprehensive testing take place during the CRM integration timeline. Training: Set aside time and contact the CRM vendor's support team if necessary to ensure your staff is trained in how the new CRM operates. If your employees aren't aware of the collaborative benefits of a CRM, this may affect productivity. Ongoing assessments: Once your CRM is integrated into your ecosystem, ongoing assessments of its value, security, and use should take place to ensure there's a demonstrable return on investment.
Show more
Latest news on CRM softwareAnthropic's Claude AI ran a small shop for a month. Want to find out what happened? Things became strange. Some experts consider Generative AI to be the catalyst for radical change in the CRM industry.New research suggests that the open source CRM market will be worth $8.07 billion by 2032.Pipedrive has appointed Paulo Cunha as its new CEO.Zoho has added AI capabilities to its Zoho Creator business app creation suite. Salesforce is using AI "trainers" in internal recruitment schemes.CRM software FAQs
Is there a free CRM?
There are a handful of free CRM solutions available such as those offered by Zoho, HubSpot, and Monday.com. These are typically suited for smaller businesses and projects, but you should expect some limits if you aren't a paid subscriber. Investing in a CRM is a significant decision. How the platform operates and how you decide to use it will influence your business' growth, future development, and potentially customer relations. As a result, if you're just starting out, it might be worth trying a free CRM solution or a free trial before you commit, especially if monthly plans aren't available. However, there are caveats. Some of the disadvantages of free CRMs include functional limits, especially regarding business operations, AI, and analytics, as well as limited data collection and analysis, basic supportm and a restricted number of seats.
Show more
Is Salesforce a CRM?
Yes, Salesforce offers a CRM -- and it's one of the most popular CRM platforms out there. Salesforce provides a cloud-based SaaS, or software as a service, CRM platform with an extensive range of business and customer relationship management functions.
Show more
Is CRM a SaaS product?
CRM suites are usually provided as SaaS, or software as a service. Though you don't necessarily need to pay for a CRM, depending on the scale and needs of your business, a SaaS-based option -- which is usually a subscription model -- could be the right fit for you. This is especially important for enterprise companies that need to manage an extensive customer base and large sales network.
Show more
Is CRM software worth it for small businesses?
In general, the answer is yes. CRM software can help kick-start business growth by centralizing and organizing sales leads, marketing, analytics, and customer communications. However, if you're just starting out and you're new to CRM software, you might want to opt for a free or budget-friendly option to begin with, and then scale up over time.
Show more
Latest updatesIn ZDNET's latest July update, we performed editorial and structural changes. We have also provided more information on alternative CRM platforms to consider.In ZDNET's May update, we made substantial changes to the article's content and organization.Other CRM software providers worth considering Show less
View now at Monday.com Monday.com is an excellent CRM, especially for small businesses that want to focus on team workflow management. It does have a free version -- albeit, a limited one -- but if you want to get started with an easy to understand workflow and board platform that can later be adopted as a full CRM, check it out.
Pros
Simple workflow management
Easy to understand dashboards, assignments
Cons
Plans can be confusing
Monday.com
Monday.com is an excellent CRM, especially for small businesses that want to focus on team workflow management. It does have a free version -- albeit, a limited one -- but if you want to get started with an easy to understand workflow and board platform that can later be adopted as a full CRM, check it out.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Capsule CRM Capsule CRM is a CRM system that can help startups and small organizations manage team workflows. Capsule is focused on simplicity and can provide a valuable starting point for new business owners who are new to the world of CRM, but want to explore how these software suites can improve customer relations and sales pipelines.
Pros
Simplicity at its core
Perfect for SMBs, startups exploring CRM
Cons
Some customer report outgrowing it quickly
Capsule CRM
Capsule CRM is a CRM system that can help startups and small organizations manage team workflows. Capsule is focused on simplicity and can provide a valuable starting point for new business owners who are new to the world of CRM, but want to explore how these software suites can improve customer relations and sales pipelines.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Salesmate Salesmate provides its customers with intuitive automation tools and campaign tracking and management functionality. However, its core focus and benefit to businesses is a focus on revenue generation, analytics, and customer support -- all backed by powerful AI tools.
Pros
Revenue-focused
AI tools
Cons
Learning curve
Salesmate
Salesmate provides its customers with intuitive automation tools and campaign tracking and management functionality. However, its core focus and benefit to businesses is a focus on revenue generation, analytics, and customer support -- all backed by powerful AI tools.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less If you're looking for a guide on the best free CRM software, look no further. Or, looking for something with an email focus? Check out our tried and tested CRM recommendations. Looking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.
Further ZDNET Tech Coverage
Smartphones
Best Android phone
Best smartphone
Best Samsung phone
Best iPhone
Best rugged Phones
Best Google phone
Best foldable phone
Best flip phone
Best 5G phone
Best cheap phone
Best stylus phone
Best Motorola phone
Smartwatches
Best smartwatch
Best blood pressure watch
Best Garmin Watch
Best Apple watch
Best Android smartwatch
Best Apple Watch Ultra strap
Best waterproof smartwatch
Best kids smartwatch
Best cheap smartwatch
Best sports watch
Tablets
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Laptops
Best laptop overall
Best Linux laptop
Best laptop for graphic design
Best lightweight laptops
Best Lenovo laptop
Best budget gaming laptop
Best 15-inch laptop
Best laptop under $1000
Best Windows laptop
Best laptop for video editing
TVs
Best TV overall
Best 85-inch TV
Best 50-inch TV
Best Samsung TV
Best Sony TV
Best Roku TV
Best 40-inch TV
Best 75-inch TV
Best 32-inch TV
Best TV for PS5
Best OLED TV
Best Hisense TV
Other Tech Resources
Is Temu legit? Everything to know before placing an order
How to download YouTube videos for free
How to screen record in Windows 10 or 11
How to create a drop down list in excel
How to use Microsoft Designer’s Image Creator
How to upgrade your incompatible Windows 10 PC to Windows 11
How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you
How to screen mirror Android to TV
How to turn on private DNS mode on Android
What is ChatGPT?
How to record a call on iPhone
How to record a call on your Android phone
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use