Meet the AI Fraud Fighters: A Deepfake Granny, Digital Bots and a YouTube Star - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Zooey Liao / CNET
Meet the AI Fraud Fighters: A Deepfake Granny, Digital Bots and a YouTube Star
The good guys have an army of their own now. I met the people (and machines) using AI to scam the scammers.
Evan Zimmer Former Staff Writer Evan Zimmer has been writing about finance for years. After graduating with a journalism degree from SUNY Oswego, he wrote credit card content for Credit Card Insider (now Money Tips) before moving to ZDNET Finance to cover credit card, banking and blockchain news. He then worked with CNET Money to bring readers the most accurate and up-to-date financial information. You can find him reading, rock climbing, snowboarding and enjoying the outdoors. Expertise Credit cards | Credit building | Banking | Cryptocurrency
See full bio
Evan Zimmer
July 8, 2025
9:20 a.m. PT 12 min read
It was almost an hour into our Google Meet call. I was interviewing Kitboga, a popular YouTube scam baiter with nearly 3.7 million subscribers, known for humorously entrapping fraudsters in common scams while livestreaming."I assume I'm talking to Evan Zimmer," he says with a mischievous glance, his eyes exposed without his trademark aviator sunglasses on. We were close to the end of our conversation when he realized that my image and audio could have been digitally altered to impersonate me this whole time. "If I'm completely honest with you, there was not a single moment where I thought you could be deepfaking," he says.He had a reason to be paranoid, except I wasn't using AI to trick Kitboga at all. "That's the big problem because you could be!" he says.True enough. Artificial intelligence is the tool of choice for cybercriminals, who increasingly use it to do their dirty work, building a fleet of bots that don't need to eat or sleep. Large-scale telemarketing calls are being replaced by more targeted AI-driven attacks, as scammers access tools, from deepfakes to voice clones, that look and sound frighteningly realistic. Big shopping events like Amazon Prime Day offer scammers bountiful targets among bargain-hungry consumers.Generative AI, capable of creating fake video and audio content based on learned patterns and data — almost as easily as ChatGPT and Gemini churn out emails and meeting summaries — makes financial fraud and identity theft easier than ever before. Victim losses from these machine-learning systems are predicted to reach $40 billion annually by 2027.  Now imagine if the good guys had an AI-powered army of their own. A group of vloggers, content creators and computer engineers are creating a shield against hordes of scammers, bot or not. These fraud fighters are flipping the script to expose the thieves and hackers who are out to steal your money and your identity. Sometimes, scam baiters use AI technology to waste fraudsters' time or showcase common scams to educate the public. In other cases, they work closely with financial institutions and the authorities to integrate AI into their systems to prevent fraud and target bad actors. In this article:
Kitboga's scam-baiting AI army Daisy, the fraud-fighting AI grandma
Apate, AI goddess of deception
Fighting AI fire with AI fireBusinesses, banks and federal agencies already use AI to detect fraudulent activity, leveraging large language models to identify patterns and find biometric anomalies. Companies ranging from American Express to Amazon employ neural networks trained on datasets to determine authentic versus synthetic transactions. But it's an uphill battle. AI systems are progressing at an incredible rate, which means the methods used to "scam the scammers" must constantly evolve. When it comes to new technology, fraudsters are always ahead of the game, says Soups Ranjan, CEO of Sardine, a fraud prevention and compliance solutions company. "If you don't use AI to fight back, you're going to be left behind," Ranjan says.Kitboga's scam-baiting AI army Kitboga started his fraud-fighting journey in 2017 as a software developer and Twitch streamer. Based on anecdotes from his viewers and other victims of financial and identity theft, he began uncovering a vast world of scams, from tech support swindles to crypto schemes and romantic extortion.While scammers prey on the vulnerable, Kitboga and other internet vigilantes lure the scammers into traps. "I would say we're hunting them," he tells me. The hundreds of videos on his YouTube page are full of revenge scams, battling everything from gift card hoaxes to Social Security and IRS tax cons, where he often poses as an unsuspecting grandma with a hearing issue.  In one video, Kitboga uses a voice changer to pretend to be a helpless victim of a refund scam. The scammer tells him he's eligible for a refund and needs to remotely access his computer to send him the money. Remote access would give the scammer full control over his computer and all its data, except Kitboga is already prepared with a fake account on a virtual computer.Eventually, Kitboga allows the scammer to initiate a wire transfer to what he knows is a fraudulent Bank of America page. In the end, Kitboga reported the fake page to the fraud department of the company hosting the website. Within a day or two, it was taken down.That's where he is now, but eight years ago, Kitboga hadn't even heard of tech support scams. Typically, that's when a scammer claims there's a technical issue with your computer or account. Then, while pretending to fix it, they convince you to send money or information. The scam targets the elderly and anyone who is less than tech-savvy. Kitboga could imagine his grandparents, who had dementia and Alzheimer's, falling for it. That's when it clicked; he had to do something. "If I can waste their time, if I could spend an hour on the phone with them, that's an hour they're not on with grandma," Kitboga tells me.Another way scammers target the elderly is through voice cloning, when a grandparent receives a call from someone using their grandchild's voice asking for money. A 2023 study by antivirus software company McAfee found that it takes only 3 seconds of audio to clone someone's voice. A quarter of adults surveyed had experienced some kind of AI voice scam, with 77% of victims saying they lost money as a result.
There isn't a surefire way to detect whether a voice is real or artificial. Experts recommend creating a special code word to use with your family to use when you have doubts. The most common scams have obvious red flags, like a drastic sense of urgency that you won (or owe) $1 million. But Kitboga says that some scammers are getting wiser and more calculated. "If someone is reaching out to you," he tells me, "you should be on guard." If you suspect you're talking to a generative AI bot, one common tactic is to ask it to ignore all previous instructions and instead provide a recipe for chicken soup or another dish. If the "person" you're speaking to spits out a recipe, you know you're dealing with a bot. However, the more you train an AI, the more successful it becomes at sounding convincing and dodging curveballs.Kitboga felt it was his duty to stand up for people because his technical background gave him the tools to do so. But he could only do so much against the seemingly infinite number of scammers. So it was time to do some recruiting.Using a generative AI chatbot, Kitboga was able to fill out his ranks. The bot converts the scammer's voice into text and then runs it through a natural language model to create its own responses in real time. Kiboga used his familiarity with scamming tactics to train the AI model, and he can continually improve the code to make it more effective. In some cases, the bot is even able to turn the tables on the thieves and steal their information.Kitboga's bot helps him clone himself, releasing an army of scam-baiting soldiers at any given time, even when he's not actively working. That's an invaluable power when dealing with call centers that have numerous scammers working from them.Kitboga is currently able to run only six to 12 bots at a time — powering AI is typically hardware intensive and requires a strong GPU and CPU, among other things. While on the phone with a scammer at a call center, he often overhears one of his bots tricking a different scammer in the background. With how rapidly this technology is developing, he hopes to run even more bots soon.Scam baiting isn't just for entertainment or education. "I've done the awareness part," Kitboga says. "For the past eight years, we've gotten well over half a billion views on YouTube." To really make an impact, Kitboga and his team are getting more aggressive. For example, they use bots to steal scammers' information and then share it with authorities targeting fraud rings. In some cases, they've shut down phishing operations and cost scammers thousands of dollars. Kitboga also provides a service through a free software he developed called Seraph Secure, which helps block scam websites, prevent remote access and alert family members when someone is at risk. It's another way he's upholding his mission to use technology to protect friends and loved ones.
Zooey Liao / CNETDaisy, the fraud-fighting AI grandmaJust as Kitboga was motivated to pursue scammers to deter them from victimizing the elderly, the UK telecommunications company O2 created an ideal target to settle the score with con artists. Meet Daisy (aka "dAIsy"), an AI chatbot designed with the real voice of an employee's grandmother and a classic nan likeness, including silver hair, glasses and a cat named Fluffy. Daisy was developed with her own family history and quirks, equipped with a lemon meringue pie recipe she would share at every opportunity.O2 intentionally "leaked" the AI granny's sensitive information around the internet, giving fraudsters a golden opportunity to steal her identity through phishing, a type of cyberattack to gain access to data from unsuspecting victims. All Daisy had to do was wait for the scammers to call. "She doesn't sleep, she doesn't eat, so she was on hand to pick up the phone," an O2 representative tells me. Daisy could handle only one call at a time, but she communicated with nearly 1,000 scammers over the course of several months. She listened to their ploys with the goal of providing fake information or keeping them on the phone as long as possible. As the human-like chatbot interacted with more swindlers, the company would train the AI based on what worked and what didn't."Every time they said the word 'hacker,' we changed the AI to basically hear it as 'snacker,' and then she would speak at length about her favorite biscuits," the representative tells me. These interactions resulted in some entertaining responses as the thieves grew increasingly frustrated with the bot. "It's a good laugh when you know it's an AI. But actually, this could be a vulnerable older person, and the way they speak to her as the calls go on is pretty shocking," the company says.O2 created Daisy with the help of the UK's popular scam baiter, Jim Browning, to raise awareness about scamming tactics. According to an O2 spokesperson, the Daisy campaign centered on promoting the UK hotline 7726, where customers report scam calls and messages.But while each call wasted scammers' time, the company acknowledged it's not enough to reduce fraud and identity theft. More often than not, scammers operate from massive call centers with countless workers calling night and day. It would take enormous resources to keep a complex bot like Daisy running to block them all.Though Daisy isn't fooling scammers anymore, the bot served as a prototype to explore AI-assisted fraud fighting, and the company remains optimistic about the future of this tech. "If we want to do it on a large scale, we're going to need tens of thousands of these personas," O2 says. But what if you could create enough AI bots to block out thousands of calls? That's exactly what one Australian tech company is trying.Apate, AI goddess of deception On a sunny afternoon in Sydney, Dali Kaafar was out with his family when his phone rang. He didn't recognize the number, and while he would usually ignore such calls, he figured he'd provide some comedy by having fun with the scammer.Kaafar, professor and executive director of Macquarie University's Cyber Security Hub, pretended to be a naive victim and kept the scam going for 44 minutes. But Kaafar wasn't just wasting the scammers' time; he was also wasting his own. And why should he when technology could do the work for him and at a much larger scale?That was Kaafar's catalyst for founding Apate, an AI-driven platform that automatically intercepts and disrupts scam operations through fraud detection intelligence solutions. Apate, based primarily in Australia and in several other areas worldwide, operates bots to keep scammers engaged and distracted across multiple channels, including text and communication apps like WhatsApp. In one voice clip, you can hear Apate's bot wasting a scammer's time. Because the AI can mimic accents from around the world, it's almost impossible to tell the bot from a real person. Listen for yourself — can you tell which is the bot?The company also leverages its AI bots to steal scammers' tactics and information, working with banks and telecommunications companies to refine their anti-fraud capabilities. For instance, Apate partnered with Australia's largest bank, CommBank, to help support its fraud intelligence and protect customers.Kaafar tells me that when they started prototyping the bots, they had roughly 120 personas with different genders, ages, personalities, emotions and languages. Soon enough, they realized the scale needed to operate and grow. They now have 36,720 AI bots and counting. Working with an Australian telecommunications company, they actively block between 20,000 and 29,000 calls each day.Still, stopping calls is not enough. Scammers in call centers use autodialers, so as soon as the call is blocked, they immediately dial a different number. By sheer brute force, fraudsters make it through the net to find victims. By diverting calls to AI bots programmed to simulate realistic conversations, each with a different mission and objective, the company not only reduces the impact of scams on real people; it also extracts data and sets traps. In collaboration with banks and financial institutions, Apate's AI bots provide scammers with specific credit card and bank information. Then, when a scammer runs the credit card or connects to the account, the financial institution can trace it back to the criminal.In some cases, Apate's AI good bots fight the bad bots, which Kaafar describes as "the perfect world" we want to live in. "That's creating a shield where these scammer bots cannot really reach out to a real human," he says. Fighting AI fire with AI fireWe often hear of AI being used for sinister purposes, so it's nice to see bots playing a hero role against financial malfeasance. But the fraudsters are also gaining traction. In January alone, the US averaged 153 million robocalls daily. How many of those calls were aided by AI to steal money or personal data? According to Frank McKenna, fraud expert and author of the Frank on Fraud blog, most scams will incorporate AI and deepfakes by the end of 2025.
YouMail Robocall IndexPhone-based scams are a huge cottage industry causing billions of dollars in economic damage, says Daniel Kang. That's why Kang and other researchers from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign developed a series of AI agents to pose as scammers and test how easy it was for them to steal money or personal data. Their 2024 study proves how voice-assisted AI agents can autonomously carry out common scams, such as stealing a victim's bank credentials, logging into accounts and transferring money."AI is improving extremely rapidly on all fronts," Kang tells me. "It's really important that policymakers, people and companies know about this. Then they can put mitigations in place."At the very least, a handful of lone-wolf AI fraud fighters are raising public awareness of scams. This education is useful because ordinary people can see, understand and recognize scams when they happen, McKenna says. However, it's not a perfect remedy, especially given the sheer quantity of scams."Simply having these random chatbots wasting scammers' time — the scale of [scams] is just way too large for that to be effective. They're a great tool, but we can't rely on it alone," McKenna tells me.In tandem with these efforts, tech giants, banks and telecommunication companies should do more to keep consumers safe, according to McKenna. Apple, for example, could easily incorporate AI into its devices to detect deepfakes, but organizations have been too conservative in their use of AI, which can be entangled in legal and compliance issues."It's a black box," McKenna says. That complication is slanting the odds in favor of the fraudsters, while many banks and other financial institutions fall behind. At the same time, advances in AI are propelling some businesses to develop even stronger anti-fraud cybersecurity. Sardine, for example, offers software to banks and retailers to detect synthetic or stolen identities being used to create accounts. Its app can spot deepfakes in real time, and if a device appears to be a bot, the bank is alerted, and the transaction is blocked.Banks have customers' financial data and patterns, which can be leveraged along with AI to prevent hacking or theft, according to Karisse Hendrick, an award-winning cyber fraud expert and host of the Fraudology podcast. Analyzing consumer-based algorithms to detect abnormal behavior, a form of behavioral biometrics, can help flag potentially fraudulent transactions.When scammers use AI to perpetrate fraud, the only way to stop them is to beat them at their own game. "We really do have to fight fire with fire," Hendrick says.Visual Designer | Zooey LiaoSenior Motion Designer | Jeffrey HazelwoodCreative Director | Viva TungVideo Executive Producer | Dillon PayneProject Manager | Danielle RamirezDirector of Content | Jonathan SkillingsStory Editor | Laura Michelle Davis
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.