NotebookLM’s most underrated feature might soon get an update that will change how you work and study
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
NotebookLM’s most underrated feature might soon get an update that will change how you work and study
By
Mahnoor Faisal
Published Sep 2, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Though Google announced NotebookLM as a Google Labs project under the codename Project Tailwind during Google I/O 2023, the AI research assistant only really took off once it added the Audio Overviews feature. Fast forward to today, a lot of people still rely on the tool mainly for its Audio Overviews, even though it offers a range of other powerful features. Though some NotebookLM features like Mind Maps and the newly launched Video Overviews are still talked about, one feature remains largely underrated — the ability to generate different Reports from your sources. Well, the same underrated feature might soon be getting an update that could make it your new favorite NotebookLM feature and change the way you work and study.
NotebookLM’s Reports feature might get smarter with AI-suggested formats
According to @TestingCatalog via an X (formerly Twitter) post and a more detailed blog on their website, NotebookLM might soon introduce "AI-suggested report formats" within the Reports feature. If you're not familiar with the Reports feature in NotebookLM, let me give you a quick rundown. Once you've created a notebook and uploaded your sources, the next thing you'll likely do is switch to the Studio panel, where you'll find the viral Audio Overviews feature, Video Overviews, and Mind Maps. Right next to the Mind Map button, there's also a Reports button, which currently lets you generate four types of reports: Briefing Doc, Study Guide, FAQ, and Timeline.
Though all four of these reports are generated using the same content you've uploaded to your notebook, they all vary in format, structure, and presentation style, allowing you to use the same content in different ways depending on your needs. For instance, when I'm cramming for a History exam, I find that the Timeline format works best, as it makes it easy to see events in order. On the other hand, when tackling a topic for the first time, the Study Guide format helps me break down the material and focus on the most important points.
TestingCatalog explains that the "AI-suggested report formats" will be "contextually suggested by Gemini," once the AI analyzes the sources a user has added to their notebook. Based on a screenshot they included in their X post, there will also be a separate Create Report pop-up, which will include a Create Your Own button.
TestingCatalog
Interestingly, the Timeline and FAQ report formats seem to be missing from the screenshot, replaced by the Create Your Own button and a new Blog Post format. The screenshot also displays the following description of the Create Your Own feature:
Craft reports your own way by specifying structure, style, tone and more
So, while details right now seem to be pretty limited, it could make a big difference for anyone using Reports in NotebookLM. Based on my observations, TestingCatalog's information has been quite reliable so far, and considering that Google has actively been working on redesigning NotebookLM's Studio UI, these updates to the Reports feature seem plausible.
Productivity & Creativity Tools
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
omar
omar
omar
#ZK035934
Member since 2025-09-03
0
Threads
1
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
YES. I mainly used briefing documents ada other report formats. Love this new update if true. Blog post, should have been jere much earlier. Can't wait for the the update
2025-09-03 21:45:29
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
7 days ago
This underdog brand's NAS is now blowing up on Amazon thanks to a new low price
7 days ago
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
6 days ago
This open-source RGB software replaced all my bloated brand apps, and I couldn’t be happier
7 days ago
I set up split-horizon DNS for my home lab, here's how
Today's best deals
Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
10 hours ago
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
16 hours ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
22 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Microsoft 365 users are getting a handy productivity tool at no additional cost
A Nintendo Switch emulator just popped up on the Google Play Store, and Nintendo likely won't be pleased
The free Obsidian plugins that simplified my productivity workflow
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.