Steam will stop running on Windows 32-bit in January 2026
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
FBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
CISA exposes malware kits deployed in Ivanti EPMM attacks
Fortra warns of max severity flaw in GoAnywhere MFT’s License Servlet
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSoftwareSteam will stop running on Windows 32-bit in January 2026
Steam will stop running on Windows 32-bit in January 2026
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 19, 2025
08:14 AM
2
Valve has announced that its Steam digital distribution service will drop support for 32-bit versions of Windows starting January 2026.
Two years earlier, in January 2024, Steam also dropped support for Windows 7, Windows 8, and Windows 8.1, recommending users to upgrade to a newer operating system.
Although Steam will soon stop running on Windows 10 32-bit (the only 32-bit Windows version still supported), it will continue to be supported on Windows 10 64-bit, and 32-bit games will remain playable.
While the number of affected users is likely minimal, given that the latest Steam hardware survey indicates that only 0.01% of gamers are using a 32-bit operating system, Valve has still urged gamers to update to a 64-bit version of Windows as soon as possible to maintain compatibility and continue receiving updates.
"As of January 1, 2026, Steam will stop supporting systems running 32-bit versions of Windows. Windows 10 32-bit is the only 32-bit version that is currently supported by Steam and is only in use on 0.01% of systems reported through the Steam Hardware Survey," the company said this week. "Existing Steam Client installations will continue to function for the near term on Windows 10 32-bit but will no longer receive updates of any kind including security updates."
"This change is required as core features in Steam rely on system drivers and other libraries that are not supported on 32-bit versions of Windows. Future versions of Steam will run on 64-bit versions of Windows only. We strongly encourage all 32-bit Windows users to update sooner rather than later," it added.
Microsoft also reminded customers earlier this month that all versions of Windows 10 will also reach their end of support in 30 days, on October 14, and advised them to upgrade eligible systems to Windows 11 or migrate to the cloud with Windows 365.
Those who can't upgrade due to incompatible hardware can delay switching to Windows 11 by enrolling in the Extended Security Updates (ESU) program, which costs $30 for home users and $61 per device per year for enterprise customers. This ESU program is also available for free to home users who want to enable Windows Backup to sync their data to the cloud or use Microsoft Rewards points to enroll.
According to Steam's August 2025 hardware & software survey, 60.39% of gamers use Windows 11, while only 35.08% use Windows 10.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 daysMicrosoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in two monthsHacker sneaks infostealer malware into early access Steam gameWindows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 daysMicrosoft fixes app install issues caused by August Windows updates
32-bit
End of Support
Games
Gaming
Steam
Windows
Windows 10
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
TairikuOkami
-
11 hours ago
About time, MS was postponing x64 for decades due to lazy devs. Time to move forward.
h_b_s
-
2 hours ago
I keep seeing this complaint and others like it all over.
But dropping 32 bit only Windows support doesn't make Valve magically less lazy a developer.
In fact, it's the opposite.
Cutting platform support reduces developer and support staff load.
No where in the announcement does it ever say that the Steam Windows client will no longer be a 32 bit native application.
It just says you need a 64 bit Windows OS (because of signed drivers for DRM & anti-cheat BS not to mention Win11 doesn't have a legacy 32 bit-only counterpart).
64 bit Windows still runs 32 bit user space applications seamlessly and probably will for another decade or more.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Self-propagating supply chain attack hits 187 npm packages
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Sponsor Posts
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT