Our commitment to sustainability through equitable open science - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Our commitment to sustainability through equitable open science
Today’s most pressing challenges demand concentrated, collaborative actions worldwide. Progress relies on a strong foundation of scientific knowledge that is accessible, inclusive, and rapidly available.We are dedicated to paving the way for a more equitable open science future rooted in rigor, transparency, inclusion, and collaboration. As a proud signatory of the UN SDG Publisher’s Compact, we work with our communities to champion the 17 UN Sustainable Development goals through the open access research we publish and the meaningful actions we take across our organization.
Advancing sustainability through trusted research
Our open access portfolio of journals reaches across disciplines and geographies to advance global progress for a more resilient, equitable, and sustainable future.Many of our journals advance research aligned to the UN SDGs, shining a spotlight on challenges in health equity, igniting public policy discussion, informing actions we take to address climate change and use our planet’s resources more sustainably, and much more. Learn more about our titles and featured collections below.
PLOS Climate
PLOS Climate empowers global, multidisciplinary collaboration, and enables decision-makers at every level of society to take urgent, evidence-based action on the causes and impacts of climate change. We share research transparently and equitably to catalyze real progress.
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Digital Health is a journal for democratizing healthcare in the interdisciplinary and digital age, encouraging research that embraces open code and data sharing to advance equitable and digitally-enabled healthcare –
increasing trust in new tools, and improving reproducibility in the field of digital health research.
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Global Public Health works to make interdisciplinary research of the highest ethical and methodological rigor openly visible and accessible to the researchers, policy experts, and clinicians who depend on it to tackle urgent health crises and advance health equity.
PLOS One
PLOS One advances research related to all SDGs, including interdisciplinary research at the intersection of global challenges. We evaluate research on the basis of scientific validity, strong methodology, and high ethical standards, selecting for research that contributes to academic knowledge and works
to advance science for the benefit of all.
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
As our leading sustainability science journal, PLOS Sustainability and Transformation aims to publish high-quality, high-impact research that addresses the global challenges of transitioning to a more sustainable and just future.
PLOS Water
PLOS Water publishes research across the interconnected issues of clean water supply and consumption, empowering researchers to drive collaboration in order to create real change in safe water sanitation and hygiene and improve insights into water resource management and impacts across the globe.
Previous
Next
“PLOS has a longstanding commitment to working with global research communities who are addressing societal challenges, and to focusing the development of our portfolio to support their needs. We’re shaping journal content, representation on our editorial boards, and the tools we offer researchers to share and promote their work around best practices for advancing a sustainable and inclusive future for all.”Rebecca KirkAssociate Editorial Director
Featured collections
Health literacy
This PLOS One collection, created in association with PLOS Global Public Health, PLOS Digital Health, and PLOS Medicine, explores how health literacy can be used to empower and positively affect health outcomes.
Bringing data to decision making for conservation and biodiversity
This PLOS Biology collection discusses issues around economics, policy, and how to conduct research that can help inform decisions around conservation and biodiversity initiatives.
Nature-based solutions for climate and water
This collection of articles from PLOS Climate and PLOS Water explores the evidence and critical perspectives that help support, enhance and challenge decision-making around natured-based solutions for climate and water related issues.
Leading responsibility
As an organization and as individuals, we are committed to advocating for and adopting practices that create a better future for both people and the planet. PLOS works beyond publishing to remove financial barriers to open access publishing by partnering with global research communities to co-create equitable solutions for sharing research. Our journals are guided by inclusive policies that reflect the diverse needs of our contributors.
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at PLOS
We aim to learn from, and partner with, different communities to build an open science system that ensures everyone, everywhere benefits from unrestricted access and reuse of research and has the opportunity to contribute their knowledge. We are working to ensure every part of our organization is open to, and shaped by, diverse perspectives and that our journals represent the broadest range of expert knowledge. By doing so, we strive to ensure that research is representative of diverse stakeholders, assessed fairly and supports collaboration towards the common good.
SDG Steering Committee
To advance these efforts, we have appointed an SDG Steering Committee comprised of senior leaders and experts to guide progress towards sustainability and inclusivity across our organization.The SDG Steering Committee consists of:
Alison MuddittChief Executive Officer
Jocelyn QuigleyExecutive Director, Marketing and Communications
Rebecca KirkAssociate Editorial Director
Jamie MalesExecutive Editor, PLOS Climate
Bekah DarksmithChief of Staff and Chief Marketing and Communications Officer
Sandra UpenguiGeneral Counsel
Roheena AnandExecutive Director, Global Publishing Development & Sales
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top