Oh, so the Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Microsoft Flight Simulator on PS5? Cats living with dogs?
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
By
Giovanni Colantonio
Published 3 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
D&D icon R.A. Salvatore might be done writing Drizzt
9 hours ago
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
2 days ago
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
1 day ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Asobo Studio/Xbox Game Studios
Over the last few years, I've watched gamers try to predict the death of Xbox like radical Christians warning the world of the rapture. I've never bought into the doomsaying. Microsoft's gaming strategy was surely shifting as it locked into a subscription service strategy with Game Pass, but Xbox felt like it was still here to stay. Even when the company began flirting with porting its first-party games to competing consoles, I still just saw it as a modern strategy built to get the most money possible out of its most expensive productions or to find greater audiences for niche games like Pentiment. After the Sept. 25 PlayStation State of Play, I have joined the choir of fearmongerers. There is no greater sign of Xbox's demise than Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024 coming to PlayStation 5. The end is nigh. Hold your Needler close and wait for the red ring to consume the world you once knew. Xbox games coming to PS5 isn't new at this point. Several tentpole Xbox exclusive games, like Forza Horizon 5, have made their way to PS5 by now to great success, and even Gears of War: Reloaded just launched simultaneously on Sony's console alongside Xbox. But something feels different about Microsoft Flight Simulator's move to PS5. Maybe it's just that Microsoft is actually in the name; it would be like PlayStation All-Stars Battle Royale coming to Xbox. (Side note: I wouldn't be mad about that and in fact welcome the possibility.) It's the one thing that felt sacred as an exclusive, Microsoft's own jet-powered Sonic the Hedgehog.
But it's less the name and more so that Microsoft's long-running series feels like its sole purpose was to showcase Microsoft products. It isn't so much a game these days as it is a tech showpiece. It's the ace in the hole that's supposed to show us why the Xbox Series X is the most powerful console around. What else could run a Windows PC game so high end that you'll need to get a new graphics card from the future to run it? If Microsoft is ready to concede that even this showpiece will be just fine on PS5, consider the towel thrown in. That shouldn't come as much of a surprise at this point. It's just the latest in a long string of signs that suggest Microsoft is changing its approach to gaming hardware. We saw a tease of that early this year when it let Meta borrow the Xbox branding to create a special edition Meta Quest 3, a firm sign that Microsoft has no interest in making its own hardware to rival the PlayStation VR2. More recently, we got a sense of this when Microsoft's long-rumored handheld console came to fruition in the form of the ROG Xbox Ally. Rather than making its own handheld, Microsoft instead decided to delegate the task to Asus in more of a branded collaboration. The ROG Xbox Ally X is still custom-built to look and feel like an Xbox product, but it's your average portable PC at its core that's capable of playing games from any PC launcher. The more we see products like this pop up, the more the idea of a brand-new Xbox generation in a few years feels like its off the table. (A 2023 leak tied to Microsoft's battle with the FTC revealed new hardware in the works, including a mid-generation Series X refresh that has yet to come to fruition.) Maybe I'm overreacting to what's ultimately a non-story. Maybe it's just smart business at this rate to let Microsoft Flight Simulator — a niche series, even if it bears the company's name — fly free and benefit from the power of the PS5 Pro. There's no rule that says Xbox can't keep making consoles now, shifting its sales pitch to the fact that it's the best way to tie into the lifestyle it has created. One can make the case that it would still be a smart investment if you want to play your Xbox games consistently across PC, smart TVs, third-party handhelds, and more. Sony ports would live in isolation by comparison, missing out on the benefits of the broader ecosystem. But you have to admit that seeing Microsoft Flight Simulator on a State of Play stream feels like the type of end time sign that you'd see in the bible. After all, we do have a Gamer Saint these days.
Analysis
Gaming
Xbox
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 hours ago
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
9 hours ago
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle part 2 release date rumors debunked by Crunchyroll
10 hours ago
An abandoned Alien plot twist inspired Alien: Earth's scariest creation
1 day ago
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
More from our brands
Video Game Release Dates 2025
Best Open-World Games On Xbox Game Pass (March 2025)
40 Best Cross-Platform Games To Play Right Now, Ranked
The Best Games On Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
“You Have Access To All The Games”: The ROG Xbox Ally X Has One Big Advantage Over The Steam Deck
If Steam Comes To Xbox, Microsoft Is Finally Bowing Out Of The Console Race
Another Major Xbox Exclusive Coming To PS5 In November, Says Leak
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
How a death metal singer helped bring Dead by Daylight’s Thai boogeyman to life
See More
Trending Now
I need these new Over the Garden Wall collectibles from Mondo in my life ASAP
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
The eyeball alien got no payoff in Alien: Earth's finale, and I'm mad about it
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.