Best early Amazon Prime Day headphones deals 2025: My 15 favorites sales ahead of October | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
Best Amazon Prime Day headphones deals 2025: I'm tracking over 15 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Amazon Prime Day isn't far away, but there are already some excellent deals if you are looking for your next pair of headphones or earbuds.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
and
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 9:49 a.m. PT
Beats Studio Pro | for $200 (save $150)
Beats Studio Pro
for $200 (save $150)
View now View at Amazon Apple AirPods Pro 2 | for $199 (save $50)
Apple AirPods Pro 2
for $199 (save $50)
View now View at Amazon Beats Studio Buds + | for $99 (save $71)
Beats Studio Buds +
for $99 (save $71)
View now View at Amazon Apple AirPods Max | for $500 (save $49)
Apple AirPods Max
for $500 (save $49)
View now View at Amazon Samsung Galaxy Buds 3 Pro | for $190 (save $60)
Samsung Galaxy Buds 3 Pro
for $190 (save $60)
View now View at Amazon
Beats Solo 4 | for $130 (save $70)
Beats Solo 4
for $130 (save $70)
View now View at Amazon Sennheiser Momentum 4 | for $295 (save $155)
Sennheiser Momentum 4
for $295 (save $155)
View now View at Amazon Amazon Echo Buds | for $25 (save $25)
Amazon Echo Buds
for $25 (save $25)
View now View at Amazon
Show more (3 items)
The holiday season may be months away, but Amazon's October Prime Day (formally known as Prime Big Deal Days) marks a great time to get ahead on holiday shopping. Plenty of premium, midrange, and budget headphones and earbuds from this year and last are already discounted ahead of the sale. Also: The best headphones we've testedI've tested all of the best headphones and earbuds, and found the best deals for you ahead of Amazon's sale, which will begin Oct. 7 and end Oct. 8.Find Prime Day dealsBest headphone and earbuds deals for Prime Day 2025
Beats Studio Pro for $200 (save $150)
Jada Jones/ZDNET
Current price: $200 (43% off)Original price: $350One of my favorite deals is for a pair of Beats Studio Pro headphones. As our reviewer said, it's close to perfect for both Android and iOS users, with a stylish design and a long battery life. Even better, you can save 43% off the typical RRP right now at Amazon.Review: Beats Studio Pro: So close to being my dream headphones
Show more
View now at Amazon
Apple AirPods Pro 2 for $199 (save $50)
Amazon
Current price: $199 (20% off)Original price: $249While Apple has recently revealed its new audio lineup, AirPods Pro 2 earbuds are still worth your time -- and it might not be necessary for you to upgrade straight away to the AirPods Pro 3. Cheaper doesn't always mean less, and at $199, they provide the quality sound and features that will suit many users.Review: AirPods Pro 3 vs. AirPods Pro 2: What to know before rushing to upgrade
Show more
View now at Amazon
Beats Studio Buds + for $99 (save $71)
Min Shin/ZDNET
Current price: $99 (41% off)Original price: $170At just under $100, these top-quality earbuds, the Beats Studio Buds +, should be on your radar. These sleek, discreet earbuds provide excellent sound -- despite their small size -- active noise cancellation, and hours of playback on a single charge.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Apple AirPods Max for $500 (save $49)
Jada Jones/ZDNET
Current price: $500 (9% off)Original price: $549If you don't mind the cost -- and the prospect of close to fifty bucks off might sway your decision -- the Apple AirPods Max over-ear headphones have a sophisticated, clean look and provide excellent sound, alongside noise cancellation technologies. You can select from five distinct finishes.Review: I wore the best headphones from Sony, Bose, Apple, and Sonos: Here's how the AirPods Max wins
Show more
View now at Amazon
Samsung Galaxy Buds 3 Pro for $190 (save $60)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $190 (24% off)Original price: $250One of Apple's closest competitors, Samsung, is not allowing itself to be left behind in the audio market. Its premium Galaxy Buds line might be the right alternative to AirPods for you, especially at a price point of under $200. As our reviewer notes, these bud-and-stem earbuds provide vibrant sound. Review: Samsung's Galaxy Buds 3 Pro made me reconsider my loyalty to AirPods
Show more
View now at Amazon
Beats Solo 4 for $130 (save $70)
Jada Jones/ZDNET
Current price: $130 (35% off)Original price: $200The release of the Beats Solo 4 over-ear headphones marked the end of a long hiatus by the company, and they did not disappoint. While they don't have the deep bass of previous models, they offer impressive passive noise cancellation and interoperability with Android and iOS. Now available at a steal price of $130, you can pick them up in three color choices.Review: Forget AirPods - these Beats headphones work just as well with iOS and Android
Show more
View now at Amazon
Sennheiser Momentum 4 for $295 (save $155)
Jada Jones/ZDNET
Current price: $295 (34% off)Original price: $450Audiophiles will appreciate the sale price of the Sennheiser Momentum 4 over-ear headphones, especially considering the company's solid reputation for exceptional audio quality. As a bonus, the Sennheiser Momentum 4 headphones provide impressive battery life.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Amazon Echo Buds for $25 (save $25)
Amazon
Current price: $25 (50% off)Original price: $50Another of our top picks ahead of Amazon's October event is the sales price of the Amazon Echo Buds. While they are an older model, for $25, these earbuds balance affordability with quality, including reasonable sound quality and Amazon Alexa support.Review: Amazon Echo Buds review: Best mix of value and features in wireless earbuds
Show more
View now at Amazon
More October Prime Day headphone and earbuds dealsApple AirPods 4: $116 (save $13 at Amazon): While the discount isn't huge, with Apple products, they rarely are. Still, you can save $13 if you want to pick up a new pair of Apple AirPods 4 earbuds. JBL Vibe Beam: $35 (save $15 at Amazon): For a budget-friendly pair of earbuds suitable for hands-free calling and with a decent battery life, check out the discounted JBL Vibe Beam.Soundcore Anker Life Q20: $35 (save $25 at Amazon): I've always been a fan of Anker products (especially its power banks), and its audio lineup isn't bad, either. If you want some comfortable noise-cancelling headphones, consider this deal.JBL Tune 510BT: $30 (save $20 at Amazon): An alternative pair of over-ear headphones from JBL are now available with a 40% discount.Beats Powerbeats Pro 2: $200 (save $50 at Amazon): If you want power and solid quality sound, save $50 on a pair of slim-fit Beats Powerbeats Pro 2 earbuds at Best Buy.Razer Kraken V3: $50 (save $20 at Best Buy): Another deal we like is for a pair of Razer Kraken V3s, a great choice if you want a pair of headphones for gaming purposes.JLab JBuddies StudioJLab JBuddies Studio: $14 (save $6 at Walmart): If you're looking for an affordable pair of kid-friendly headphones, the JLab JBuddies set, now on sale, is suitable for ages 6+ and comes with a volume limiter. FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? This year, Amazon's October Prime Day sale runs on October 7 and October 8. The annual sale will last for two days in the fall, and you can expect to see a range of deals on household goods, tech gadgets, and electronics, including laptops, PCs, and headphones. Are headphones really cheaper on Prime Day? Yes, you can find headphones at discounted prices during Prime Day. I spend a lot of time testing headphones and tracking their retail and discounted prices. All of the headphones, earbuds, and Bluetooth speakers included in this list are discounted from their original sale price. How did we choose these October Prime Day deals?ZDNET authors only write about deals that interest us personally and include products that we own or want to buy. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are normally not on sale, as is often the case with Apple devices), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal actually represents value for your money.We also explored customer reviews to find out what matters to those who already own and use the products and deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing.
Show more
Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best Amazon Prime Day Apple deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts in October
Best early Amazon Prime Day Echo device deals 2025: I'm tracking 10 of my favorite discounts before October
Top Best Buy deals before Prime Day 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use