Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) job with Springer Nature Ltd | 12844947
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Employer
Springer Nature Ltd
Location
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Salary
Competitive salary + excellent benefits package
Closing date
8 Oct 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Earth Science,
Environmental Science
Job Type
Editor
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Industry
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Company
Job Details
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Closing date: 8th October, 2025
About Springer Nature
Springer Nature is one of the leading publishers of research in the world. We publish the largest number of journals and books and are a pioneer in open research. Through our leading brands, trusted for more than 180 years, we provide technology-enabled products, platforms and services that help researchers to uncover new ideas and share their discoveries, health professionals to stay at the forefront of medical science, and educators to advance learning. We are proud to be part of progress, working together with the communities we serve to share knowledge and bring greater understanding to the world. For more information, please visit about.springernature.com and @SpringerNature.
About the Brand
Nature Portfolio is a flagship portfolio of journals, products and services including Nature and the Nature-branded journals, dedicated to serving the scientific community.
Visit nature.com and follow @Nature / @NaturePortfolio
About the Role
Nature Research is the world’s leader in publishing high-quality research from across the natural sciences. Its journals include Nature, the Nature Research journals, the Nature Reviews journals and Nature Communications.
Nature Communications is the leading multidisciplinary Open Access journal, publishing high-quality scientific research. To help us to build on the success of this journal, we’re seeking a researcher with a background in geosciences, and a particular interest in geochemistry, geodynamics, tectonics, or geophysics, who has a critical eye, a deep understanding of their subject and interests beyond, and who can think on their feet.
The Associate/Senior Editor role at Nature Communications is ideal for researchers who love science but feel that a career at the bench isn’t enough to sate your desire to learn more about the natural world and for those who enjoy reading papers outside their chosen area of research.
The responsibilities include:
•Handling original research papers, and working closely with other editors on all aspects of the editorial process, including manuscript selection and overseeing peer review.
•Making well-reasoned editorial decisions on submitted manuscripts in the light of expert advice.
•Determining the representation of their subject in the journal.
•Liaising extensively with editors at other journals in the Nature family and with experts in the international scientific community.
•Attending conferences and visiting research institutions.
To be considered for the position, you will have:
•A PhD (or equivalent) in any field of geosciences. We are particularly interested in candidates that have a strong expertise in solid Earth Sciences, with backgrounds such as tectonics, seismology, geophysics, geodynamics, volcanology, planetary science, petrology, or (hpt) mineralogy.
•Some postdoctoral research experience is preferred but not essential. A thorough understanding of the fundamentals of the subject is essential.
•A passion for science and a thirst to learn more. You must be able to demonstrate the breadth of your interest in scientific research, both within and beyond your speciality and across the wider field of statistics and machine learning.
•Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and be fluent in English (written and spoken).
•The ability to read and assess the novelty, context and implications of research submitted to the journal from different areas of this discipline.
•Be eager to travel and meet scientists worldwide, learn more about them and their research, and help them learn more about us and what we are looking for in the papers we seek to publish.
This role can be in our Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid) office. The position is offered on a full-time, permanent basis. Editorial experience is not required, although applicants with significant editorial experience are encouraged to apply and will potentially be considered for Senior Editor positions.
Springer Nature promotes an inclusive work environment and welcomes applications from individuals belonging to protected categories under Italian Law 68/99.
Applicants should include a CV, a cover letter explaining their interest in the post and their preferred office of employment, and a separate concise (300-400 words) discussion of recent scientific developments in any area related to geosciences that they found particularly exciting, stating why.
US employees are eligible for benefits including, but not limited to, medical, dental, vision, short and long term disability, life and AD&D insurance, tuition assistance, employee assistance program, paid vacation and sick time, flexible spending accounts, and a 401k retirement savings plan.
In order to comply with various pay transparency laws and legislations in the United States, the salary range and benefits for this position are included. This information is only applicable to US-based candidates and the actual salary offer may vary based on work experience, education, skill level and equity. Salary ranges differ by country due to various local market considerations. The US salary range does not align with the salary ranges in other countries when converted to the currency of that country.
US Annualized Base Salary Range: Associate Editor: $80,000 / Senior Editor: $95,000.
At Springer Nature, we value the diversity of our teams and work to build an inclusive culture, where people are treated fairly and can bring their differences to work and thrive. We empower our colleagues and value their diverse perspectives as we strive to attract, nurture and develop the very best talent. Springer Nature was awarded Diversity Team of the Year at the 2022 British Diversity Awards. Find out more about our DEI work here: https://group.springernature.com/gp/group/taking-responsibility/diversity-equity-inclusion.
If you have any access needs related to disability, neurodivergence or a chronic condition, please contact us so we can make all necessary accommodation.
For more information about career opportunities in Springer Nature please visit https://springernature.wd3.myworkdayjobs.com/SpringerNatureCareers/
Company
Learn more about this company
Visit this company’s hub to learn about their values, culture, and latest jobs.
Visit employer hub
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Send job
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Learn more about this company
Visit this company’s hub to learn about their values, culture, and latest jobs.
Visit employer hub
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Team Lead, Content Retention, China
Beijing/Shanghai/Nanjing
Open Call for Expressions of Interest: Max Planck Directors
Germany (DE)
Associate or Senior Editor, Communications Earth & Environment
New York City, New York (US)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software