Your next Snapdragon device may help you locate stolen devices right out of the box
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Your next Snapdragon device may help you locate stolen devices right out of the box
Image Credit: Snapdragon
By
Simon Batt
Published 1 day ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Snapdragon Guardian enables remote management even when devices are powered off or offline.
Built-in cellular, 4G/5G, and Wi‑Fi 7 boost enterprise manageability and ransomware defense.
Consumers get locate, lock, and wipe features built into Snapdragon devices for stronger theft protection.
The Snapdragon Summit is currently underway, and our editor-in-chief, Rich Woods, has been soaking up all of the new reveals and mingling with folk at the event. The last time I checked in with him, he was drooling over the Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme, so it's safe to assume he's having a blast. Well, it turns out that the summit had a few more announcements up its sleeve before it finished. The company has announced its new security tools called Snapdragon Guardian, and while it doesn't seem to be anything special for consumers at first, there is a single line in the press release that changes everything.
Snapdragon Guardian will help you find your lost hardware
Credit: Justin Duino / XDA-Developers
Over in the Qualcomm newsroom, the company breaks down what its new security suite, Snapdragon Guardian, can do for its customers. At first, things start off with a business and enterprise focus, and while it's not applicable for us consumers, it's still a really interesting read just to see what technology can achieve these days. For instance, Qualcomm says:
Whereas typical management solutions stop working once PCs are powered off and disconnected from Wi-Fi, Snapdragon Guardian is backed by built-in cellular modems and 4G, 5G and Wi-Fi 7 connectivity. This enables IT teams to securely manage devices in any location — even when those devices are offline, powered down or unbootable. And with up to 92% of successful ransomware attacks coming from unmanaged devices, that kind of protection and manageability makes all the difference.
That ransomware threat isn't anything to scoff at; after AI models made creating malware even easier for bad actors, having an additional layer of security against it is well worth the effort that goes into setting it up. So, what about us consumers? Well, right before the press release ends, there's this one nice line:
For consumers: Through features like locate and lock and wipe, Snapdragon Guardian helps keep personal data safe while delivering an extra layer of theft protection.
That's pretty huge; given how Snapdragon chips find themselves in laptops and mobile devices all the time, having Snapdragon Guardian offer device location alongside lock and wipe mechanisms is pretty big for built-in security instead of relying on the manufacturer or a third-party app to provide the same level of security. Definitely exciting stuff. If you want to see even more goodies from the event, check out how Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 puts a 4.6 GHz processor in your pocket.
Other Hardware
Snapdragon
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
This awesome Raspberry Pi project brings the Game Boy Advance back to life
2 days ago
5 of my favorite SSH client for Windows
2 days ago
3 automation recipes that move files exactly where they belong
1 day ago
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
4 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
After Windows, I want Raycast to come to Linux next
I recommend people use these apps when moving from Windows to Linux
The Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O.: World Stage closed beta was more of the same, but with a bigger pool of players
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.