Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA)) job with ShanghaiTech University | 12841661
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
Employer
ShanghaiTech University
Location
Shanghai (CN)
Salary
Competitive salary
Closing date
25 Aug 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Computing,
Mathematics
Job Type
Faculty Member
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Company
Job Details
ShanghaiTech University calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential to fill tenure-track/tenured faculty positions in cutting-edge fields of research in the School of Creativity and Art (SCA).
ShanghaiTech University is founded as a world-class research university to foster future scientists, entrepreneurs, and innovators. Located in Zhangjiang Hightech Park of the cosmopolitan Shanghai, ShanghaiTech shall trail-blaze a new education system in China. Besides establishing and maintaining a world-class research profile, faculty candidates are also expected to contribute substantially to the teaching of both undergraduate and graduate programs.
Established in November in 2017, the School of Creativity and Art aims to develop an institute of higher education that is at the forefront of our country. We will be fully engaged internationally to promote innovation and collaboration of design and creative arts with advanced science and technology to provide a pioneering platform for study, research, experiment, exchange, growth and breakthroughs. Our goal is to challenge the next generation of creative art professionals to inject new inspirations and momentum into China and provide humanity advances in our cultural and spiritual lives.
Academic Disciplines:
We are seeking candidates with strong interests and track records in teaching and research in combining design, art and technology.
Preferred academic disciplines include but are not limited to: industry design, interaction design, human computer interaction, design engineering, media transmission, digital art, materials and design, design/art theory，mechanical engineering, electronic engineering, sensory control, digital simulation, artificial intelligence, 3D design, digital media, game design, virtual reality.
Qualifications:
Ph.D. degree in above disciplines;
Strong teaching ability and research productivity;
Strong interests and track records or demonstrated potentials in applying innovative   technologies to design and art.
Application Procedure:
Submit (PDF version) to: sca@shanghaitech.edu.cn and indicate the recruitment ads source. For more information, visit http://sca.shanghaitech.edu.cn
1.personal resume with detailed information including study and work experience, published academic papers/books, scientific research projects hosted, courses taught, academic rewards, etc.
2.a 1-page teaching plan, including the name of the available courses and a brief description of the course content
3.a 1-page research plan, including research interests and future plan
4.copies of 3 most significant publications/ design portfolio
5.contact information of at least three referees (name, position, email, etc.) and your relationship. We will invite your referees to personally send recommendation letters when necessary
Company
ShanghaiTech University 上海科技大学
Jointly founded by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and Shanghai Municipal People’s Government in 2013, ShanghaiTech University aspires to be a small-scale, high-level, international university oriented towards research and innovation, for nurturing the next generation of innovative scientists, inventors, and entrepreneurs. On February 14, 2022, ShanghaiTech joined the list of China’s World-Class Universities Project as the youngest university in that list. With the backing and support of our two co-founding institutions, ShanghaiTech is committed to tackling the challenges that China and the world are facing in the fields covering artificial intelligence, biology, biomedical engineering, data science, electrical engineering, energy, environment, human health, materials, and others.
ShanghaiTech’s tenure-track system is attracting talented faculty with a wealth of experience from world-leading universities and institutes. Currently there are ~340 professors under the tenure-track system, 80% of whom have overseas study or work experiences and around 14% are foreign nationals. Our team of nearly 290 adjunct professors includes four Nobel Prize winners, 38 academicians of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE).
With a focus on STEM fields, ShanghaiTech has established the following schools, institutes, one center and a research hospital:
-School of Physical Science and Technology
-School of Life Science and Technology
-School of Information Science and Technology
-School of Entrepreneurship and Management
-School of Creativity and Art
-Institute of Humanities
-School of Biomedical Engineering
-Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies
-iHuman Institute
-Institute of Mathematical Sciences
-Center for Transformative Science
-Institute of Carbon Neutrality
-Shanghai Clinical Research and Trial Center (research hospital)
Located in Shanghai’s Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, ShanghaiTech plays an important role in the development of the Zhangjiang Comprehensive National Science Center, in partnership with CAS institutes. The proximity of neighboring facilities offers numerous opportunities for scientific collaborations. The world-class scientific facilities include: National Center for Protein Science (Shanghai), Shanghai HIgh repetitioN rate XFEL and Extreme light facility (SHINE), Shanghai Superintense Ultrafast Laser Facility (SULF), Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF), Shanghai Soft X-ray Free Electron Laser Facility (SXEFL), and others. These facilities welcome not only ShanghaiTech staff and students, but also other researchers from China and the world.
Currently, there are over 300 research groups at ShanghaiTech. Since 2016, ShanghaiTech has published 85 Cell, Nature and Science papers as the main affiliation, and multiple achievements are recognized at the national/municipal level, including two awards among Top 10 Scientific Advances in China, one award among Top 10 S&T Advances in Chinese Universities, five awards among Top 10 Advances in Life Sciences in China, and one 1st prize of the Shanghai S&T Awards, etc.
In 2019, ShanghaiTech ranks first in the Report on Tech Transfer Achievements in China (Higher Education Institution)1. Since the birth of the first spinoff company in 2016, ShanghaiTech has incubated 40 spinoffs, spanning the areas of biomedicine, IT&AI, high-end manufacturing and new energy. Not only the faculty, but also the students become founders of those spinouts. Further, dedicated incubators inside and outside the campus serve as vital “powerhouses” of innovation practices and bridges for connecting technical, market, policy and capital resources.
Company info
Location
Shanghai201210China
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Shanghai, China
Linyi University 2025 Staff Recruitment Announcement (Long-Term Positions)
Linyi, Shandong (CN)
Global Talent Recruitment of Shanghai University in 2025
Shanghai (CN)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software