4 times when an M.2 heatsink is more than just cosmetic
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
4 times when an M.2 heatsink is more than just cosmetic
By
Ty Sherback
Published 1 hour ago
His love of PCs and their components was born out of trying to squeeze every ounce of performance out of the family computer. Tinkering with his own build at age 10 turned into building PCs for friends and family, fostering a passion that would ultimately take shape as a career path.
Besides being the first call for tech support for those close to him, Ty is a computer science student, with his focus being cloud computing and networking. He also competed in semi-pro Counter-Strike for 8 years, making him intimately familiar with everything to do with peripherals.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
SSD speeds have continued to skyrocket with PCIe Gen 4 and Gen 5, and with it, so have their thermal demands. M.2 drives may be tiny, but they can run surprisingly hot under load, especially in compact cases or poorly ventilated spots on your motherboard. Without a heatsink, many of these drives will throttle down, lose consistency, or even wear out faster than expected. That’s when an M.2 drive heatsink goes from an optional add-on to something that can make a big difference.
When using drives that support PCIe 4.0 or 5.0
Faster speeds come at a cost
PCIe Gen 3.0 is fast, don't get me wrong, but PCIe 4.0 and 5.0 have upped the ante significantly. When you're increasing speeds by more than 3x, that speed comes at a cost, and unfortunately, that cost is thermals. The controllers on these fast drives can generate a significant amount of heat, especially under sustained workloads. Working with ultra-high resolution video or streaming large texture files during can put a significant load on your drive. These M.2 drives aren't immune to thermal throttling, and most will begin to do so at around 70 degrees Celcius. Performance will nose-dive as a result, and in order to keep performance in check, an M.2 heatsink becomes imperative. A thermal pad combined with a decently sized heatsink can shave more than 10 degrees off of operating temps, and keep performance at PCIe 4.0 or 5.0 rated speeds.
In a small-form-factor case
Small space means more concentrated heat
When it comes to smaller spaces, the battle against heat is always going to be a struggle. When it comes to the larger components, such as the GPU and CPU, dealing with this heat is usually just a matter of ensuring proper airflow in and out of their respective cooling systems. In an SFF case, this has likely been considered by the designer, so there isn't much to be done there. When it comes to your M.2 SSD though, dissipating that heat suddenly becomes more challenging, as it's likely buried beneath layers of other components and wiring. Heatsinks pull heat away from the components, and while passive airflow will be relatively limited in a small-form-factor build, an M.2 drive with one will be able to reach its rated speeds for longer than one without one.
Awkward slot placement
Residual heat has to go somewhere
One slightly annoying hardware trend in recent years is the placement of M.2 slots on motherboards. There isn't a lot to be done about this, but unfortunately, the higher speed M.2 slots tend to be closer to the CPU socket, usually just below the first PCIe slot. This is the slot that most users use for their GPU, so you can see where I'm going with this. Being stuck behind a massive chunk of hot metal and silicon (perhaps the hottest part of your rig) isn't exactly conducive to great thermal performance. The residual heat coming off of your GPU can be absorbed by your SSD, further adding to its thermal load. To make matters worse, it almost certainly limits the height of M.2 heatsink that your drive can comfortably have in that high-speed slot. Fortunately, all high-end motherboards and most mid-range boards offer some sort of M.2 heatsink for the highest speed slots. This doesn't eliminate the problem entirely, but it certainly helps dissipate that heat created by your drive.
When longevity is a priority
Heat is always enemy number one
Whenever you're thinking about the longevity of any PC part, thermals are always a consideration, no matter how small the component. Excessive heat for long periods of time will decrease the lifespan of even the toughest components, and M.2 SSDs are no exception. Most of the high-performance drives will come with a heatsink of their own, or they'll have a different SKU of the same drive that has one. Every degree shaved off matters for longevity's sake, even if it might not seem like much. A longer lasting drive means it can live multiple lives; your boot drive, a scratch disk in your main rig, or a storage pool in your NAS.
Thermals are paramount for storage longevity and performance
M.2 SSDs are no exception to that. Heat is no longer just a side effect of these drives, it's become the limiting factor. They aren't always necessary, but a heatsink is a simple addition that can ensure your M.2 drive runs at its full advertised speeds, avoids mid-transfer slowdowns, and lasts longer in the process.
Storage
SSD
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
This 17MB Linux distro runs on just about any PC
4 days ago
I led a party of AI models through a deadly D&D dungeon, and this one survived the longest
4 days ago
4 Windows tools I miss while using Ubuntu as my daily machine
2 days ago
I built a pocket NAS with a Raspberry Pi and an NVMe drive
Today's best deals
Score this Cooler Master wireless mechanical keyboard for 49% off and add a splash of color to your workspace
3 hours ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
15 hours ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I ran my NAS in Proxmox and set up an SMB share so my LXCs can access it
I tried cutting Windows out of my life with WinBoat, but I just can't recommend it
Black Ops 7 needs to be harsher against cheating with Call of Duty multiplayer so I can enjoy playing it
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.