Lawsuit aims to force Education Dept. to resume student loan forgiveness : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Lawsuit aims to force Education Dept. to resume student loan forgiveness The American Federation of Teachers is seeking a preliminary injunction that would force the department to resume student loan forgiveness.
Education
Lawsuit aims to force Trump administration to stop delaying student loan forgiveness
September 19, 20255:00 AM ET
Cory Turner
Enlarge this image
Cecilia Castelli for NPR
Cecilia Castelli for NPR
In a new court filing, the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) is asking a federal judge to force the U.S. Department of Education to follow the law and cancel the debts of borrowers who have met longstanding requirements for loan forgiveness. The AFT argues the department is delaying cancellation for many borrowers in a way that is "unwarranted and unlawful" and will have "real and significant consequences."
Education
What borrowers should know about student loan changes in the One Big Beautiful Bill
That's because the clock is ticking. With the American Rescue Plan, Congress temporarily stopped treating loan cancellation as taxable income until Jan. 1, 2026. Soon, many borrowers will again be expected to pay taxes on those cancelled debts. The AFT is seeking an injunction to force the department to do a few things, including: Cancel the debts of borrowers on income-dependent repayment plans like IBR, ICR and PAYE when those borrowers have met the requirement that they be in repayment for 20 or 25 years.Process thousands of outstanding requests for Public Service Loan Forgiveness from borrowers who "buy back" time that did not previously count.The trouble started with the SAVE Plan
Sponsor Message
The Education Department largely blames these delays in debt cancellation on the Biden administration and the federal courts. "Congress designed these [plans] to ensure that borrowers repay their loans, yet the Biden Administration tried to illegally force taxpayers to foot the bill," Education Secretary Linda McMahon said in a July statement. McMahon is referring to the income-driven SAVE repayment plan, which was created by the Biden administration and was so generous in its terms that the courts forced the department to put the plan on ice, throwing much of the loan program into confusion. The Education Department has used the legal uncertainty around SAVE to justify halting cancellation under ICR, PAYE and IBR. IBR was created by Congress and is not being challenged legally. But the department told NPR in July that questions about SAVE's legality had made it difficult to determine eligibility for cancellation under IBR. As a result, many borrowers who are likely eligible for cancellation are still having to make payments. "For any borrower that makes a payment after they became eligible for forgiveness, the Department will refund overpayments when the discharges resume," the department told NPR in a statement this week. As for when that might be?
Sponsor Message
The department would not commit to a timetable: "IBR discharges will resume as soon as the Department is able to establish the correct payment count." PSLF troubles Borrowers enrolled in Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) have also encountered delays. According to court records, by the end of last month, the department had a backlog of nearly 75,000 applications for cancellation under the PSLF "Buyback" program. That allows borrowers with 10 years of verified public service to make qualifying payments for months they spent in forbearance or deferment. In its amended suit, the AFT says, from May to August, the department received far more buyback applications than it processed. Each month, "the Department received an average of 9,902 new applications, but only processed an average of 3,604." In a statement, Education Department Deputy Press Secretary Ellen Keast says, with the PSLF "Buyback" program, the Biden administration was guilty of "weaponizing a legal discharge plan for political purposes. The Department is working its way through this backlog while ensuring that borrowers have submitted the required 120 payments of qualifying employment." Processing these buyback applications can be time-consuming, and the Trump administration's move to cut the Office of Federal Student Aid's staff by half may have slowed its efforts.
Education
Millions of student loan borrowers are at risk of defaulting, data shows
The Jan. 1, 2026, tax changes will not apply to Public Service Loan Forgiveness. Many borrowers are at risk of default More than 7 million borrowers are enrolled in SAVE and have not been required to make payments, but the Trump administration recently resumed interest accrual on these loans, looking to nudge borrowers into alternative plans. But court records show enrolling in an alternative has been slow-going for months. In February, the department temporarily stopped accepting applications for all income-dependent repayment plans, and though it has resumed, more than a million were still pending as of the end of August. The Education Department's Keast tells NPR this backlog began during the previous administration, and that the department "is actively working with federal student loan servicers and hopes to clear the Biden backlog over the next few months."
Sponsor Message
Amidst all this confusion and uncertainty, data suggest many federal student loan borrowers are failing to repay their loans. "One in three federal student loan borrowers that are in repayment right now are in some stage of delinquency," says Daniel Mangrum, a research economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Meaning millions of borrowers are now at serious risk of default.
student loans
student debt forgiveness
public service loan forgiveness
lawsuit
loan repayment
AFT
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor