Best Gaming Routers for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Home Internet
Best Gaming Routers for 2025
Our experts put 31 Wi-Fi routers to the test to find the best options that minimize lag and packet loss for a smooth gaming experience.
Our Experts
Written by
Joe Supan
Article updated on August 10, 2025 at 12:00 PM PDT
Joe Supan Senior Writer Joe Supan is a senior writer for CNET covering home technology, broadband, and moving. Prior to joining CNET, Joe led MyMove's moving coverage and reported on broadband policy, the digital divide, and privacy issues for the broadband marketplace Allconnect. He has been featured as a guest columnist on Broadband Breakfast, and his work has been referenced by the Los Angeles Times, Forbes, National Geographic, Yahoo! Finance and more.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Wi-Fi standard
Almost all routers now on the market are Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E or Wi-Fi 7. These numbers refer to the generation of standards. Wi-Fi 7 is the seventh and latest iteration and it introduced a number of speed improvements. Wi-Fi 6E and Wi-Fi 7 routers use the newly opend 6GHz band, but only Wi-Fi 7 has features like Multi-Link Operation (MLO) and 4K-QAM modulation.
Frequency bands
All Wi-Fi routers send and receive data through 2.4 and 5GHz airwaves but tri-band routers also use the 6GHz band. The 2.4GHz band offers a better range than higher bands but speeds are limited. With 5GHz and 6GHz, you can hit much faster speeds, but those speeds will drop off at range faster than you'll see with 2.4GHz.
Mesh systems
A single router will have a hard time sending a Wi-Fi signal to every corner of a larger home. For that, your best option is to upgrade to a mesh system, which uses two or three routers to blanket a home in coverage.
Ethernet ports
Most routers have at least one gigabit Ethernet port that allows you to connect a device directly to the router for better speed and reliability.
Throughput
Throughput is the actual volume of data a router transmits during a period of time. In a router, this will translate to fast or slow internet speeds in a real-world environment.
Jitter
Jitter measures variations in latency, or the time it takes for data to arrive at its destination. When you're in a video meeting and there's a delay in audio, or someone's video freezes, jitter is the culprit.
Packet loss
Packet loss tells us whether any data failed to reach its destination during the test. Think of a video that's coming through scrambled.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Do you really need a special router for gaming? Yes and no. "Gaming router" is more of a marketing term than a real thing. Sometimes it tells you the router comes with gaming features like device prioritization, but often it just means flashy lights and futuristic designs. Don't fall for it. You don't need a router specifically designed for gaming but you do need a router that won't slow you down during fast-paced gameplay. The main thing you should pay attention to is jitter, which tells you how often your gaming experience will be interrupted by lag. We tested 31 top Wi-Fi routers to find the ones that remove lag from the equation as much as possible. Our Picks
Best gaming router overall Linksys Velop Pro 6E
Jump to details
$140 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget gaming router D-Link Aquila Pro M30
Jump to details
$81 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Wi-Fi 6 gaming router Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000
Jump to details
$220 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best gaming router for larger homes Asus RT-AX86U Pro
Jump to details
$170 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Gaming Routers for 2025
What's the best gaming router overall?
Best gaming routers compared
Factors to consider before buying a gaming router
How we test gaming routers
Other gaming routers CNET tested
What's the best gaming router overall?The best gaming router for most people is the Linksys Velop Pro 6E. It’s a Wi-Fi 6E router, so you'll get access to the same ultrawide 6GHz band that Wi-Fi 7 routers use. More important, the Velop Pro 6E had the lowest overall jitter scores of any router we tested -- the most essential ingredient to a lag-free gaming experience.
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/6
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best gaming router overall
Linksys Velop Pro 6E
Pros
Lowest all-around jitter and packet loss scores
Access to the ultrawide 6GHz band
Great price for a tri-band router
Minimalist design that blends in with surroundings
Solid range for a single router
Three-year warranty
Cons
Throughput scores were mediocre overall
Bare-bones quality of service (QoS) settings
Why I like it: While it's marketed as a mesh system, the Linksys Velop Pro 6E is a great deal as a standalone router, too. It’s almost unheard of to see a tri-band router for less than $150. You usually have to pay a premium to get access to the ultrawide 6GHz band and, while it’s not as wide as the 6GHz band on Wi-Fi 7 routers, the Velop Pro 6E still returned speeds of 628 megabits per second through it. I also loved how low-profile this router looks. With a clean, all-white design, this is one router I wouldn’t be tempted to hide behind the couch. Who it's for: Gamers, pure and simple. The Velop Pro 6E was absolutely elite where it counts for online gaming: jitter and packet loss. It had a jitter score of 0.19ms on the 2.4GHz band, 0.02ms on 5GHz and 0.05ms on 6GHz -- all well below the 30ms that’s considered good for online gaming. Its packet loss scores were also exceptional, clocking in at 0.06% on 2.4GHz, 3.06% on 5GHz and 0.05% on 6GHz. No matter which band you’re gaming on, you’ll get a seamless experience. Who shouldn't buy it: If you’re not going to be doing any gaming at all, there are better routers out there. The Velop Pro 6E was actually fairly pedestrian in throughput, ranking in the bottom third of wireless routers on all three bands. That’s still plenty of speed for gaming -- especially if you’re relatively close to the router -- but there are better routers out there if you don’t need to prioritize ultralow jitter.  ... Show more
Get it now
$140 at Amazon
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best budget gaming router
D-Link Aquila Pro M30
Pros
Excellent jitter scores, especially on the 5GHz band
Can add other D-Link routers to create a mesh system
Four gigabit Ethernet ports
Works with Alexa and Google Assistant
Cons
Limited range on 5GHz
Throughput scores were average on both bands
Why I like it:While it’s marketed as a mesh system, the D-Link Aquila M30 works just fine as a standalone router. Its test results didn’t exactly jump off the screen but for a cheap gaming router less than $100, you won’t find better performance. Who it’s for:The D-Link M30 is strong where it matters for gamers: jitter and packet loss. It brought in a jitter score of 0.03ms on the 5GHz band, which was behind only our best overall gaming router, the Linksys Velop Pro 6E. Its packet loss scores overall weren’t quite as impressive -- 0.11% on 2.4GHz and 6.38% on 5GHz -- but at a close range or through a wired connection, you likely won’t experience any issues. Who shouldn't buy it: If you live in a bigger home or will be gaming in another room than your router, it’s probably worth spending a little more on a mesh system or the ASUS RT-AX86U Pro, our pick for the best gaming router for larger homes. That’s because the D-Link M30 returned pretty weak signal strength results -- especially on the 5GHz band.  ... Show more
Get it now
$81 at Amazon
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/7
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best Wi-Fi 6 gaming router
Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000
Pros
World-class performance on 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands
Only one router had a lower jitter score on the 5GHz band -- perfect if you want to prioritize work or gaming
Endlessly customizable settings for gaming
Dedicated gaming Ethernet port
Cons
Designed for gamers -- and it looks like it
No 6GHz band so you won’t be able to take advantage of Wi-Fi 7
Signal was easily blocked by walls on the 2.4GHz band
Why I like it:This thing just works. The test results jumped off the screen: It was the only wireless router to score top five on both the 2.4 and 5GHz bands in our throughput tests, which measure how fast a router can transmit data to a device wirelessly. The 5GHz band was particularly impressive. We established a baseline of 939Mbps through a wired connection on 5GHz; when we moved the GT-AX6000 50 feet away, it barely budged at 927Mbps. For comparison, the Netgear NightHawk RS700 -- a router that costs more than twice as much -- only got 80Mbps from that distance. It also clocked a near-zero 0.03 jitter score on the 5GHz band. In other words, the time it takes for an action to register on the screen is nearly instantaneous. That’s the kind of performance that’s worth paying a little extra for. Who it's for: The GT-AX6000 comes with a ton of nice bells and whistles for gamers -- WAN and LAN aggregation, game console prioritization, simple port forwarding -- but this router checked every box in general. It also has the latest WPA3 network security standard, automatic firmware updates and parental controls that let you filter websites and apps on specific devices. Who shouldn't buy it: If you only have a handful of devices connected to the internet at a time, you probably don’t need to shell out $220 for a high-performing router. I also wasn’t crazy about this router’s design. All the red lights made me feel like I was mainlining Mountain Dew Code Red. There are some clever ways to hide a wireless router without blocking its signal, like stashing it in a crate or wicker basket, but I wouldn’t hold it against anyone who thought this was too much aesthetically. The main drawback from a technical standpoint is that it doesn’t give you access to the ultrawide 6GHz band. For that, you’ll need to shell out for a pricier Wi-Fi 6E or 7 router.   ... Show more
Get it now
$220 at Amazon
$220 at Best Buy
$180 at B&H Photo-Video
Photo Gallery 1/7
Best gaming router for larger homes
Asus RT-AX86U Pro
Pros
Impressive range for a single router
Excellent throughput performance, even at longer distances
Incredibly low jitter scores on 2.4 and 5GHz bands
Can add another ASUS router to create a mesh system
Four 1Gbps LAN ports with a dedicated “gaming port”
Cons
No 6GHz band so it doesn’t take full advantage of Wi-Fi 7 devices
Packet loss was relatively high -- especially on the 5GHz band
Why I like it: It all comes down to range. The signal strength maps pictured above might not look like much, but the Asus RT-AX86U Pro outperformed nearly every other wireless router we tested. Speeds barely dropped off when we moved further away from the router -- 906Mbps on the 5GHz band from 50 feet away, compared to a baseline of 939Mbps with a wired connection. It also comes with every network security feature we looked for: WPA3 certification, automatic firmware updates and adjustable parental controls.Who it's for: Anyone living in a larger home with multiple floors. Short of investing in a full-fledged mesh system that uses multiple routers, this is as good as I’ve seen a router perform when traveling through walls and across vast spaces. If your home is more than 2,500 square feet, you might still need a mesh system or Wi-Fi extender to completely eliminate dead zones but the ASUS RT-AX86U Pro has such strong throughput performance to begin with, you might not even notice the drop-off across rooms. Who shouldn't buy it: Even though it’s marketed toward gamers, I would steer them to our best overall or best gaming router picks. That’s because the RT-AX86U Pro had higher packet loss scores than I would have liked, falling in the bottom third of Wi-Fi routers we tested. It was still in the range that’s considered acceptable for most internet users but gamers might notice a frozen screen or moments of high lag on the 5GHz band.  ... Show more
Get it now
$170 at Amazon
$197 at Walmart
$170 at Best Buy
Best gaming routers compared
Linksys Velop Pro 6ED-Link Aquila Pro M30Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000Asus RT-AX86U Pro Price $150$81$220$170Wi-Fi standard 6E666Frequency bands 2.4, 5, 62.4, 52.4, 52.4, 5Maximum speed 5,400Mbps3,000Mbps6,000Mbps5,700MbpsNumber of Ethernet ports 2466USB connectivity NoneNone2 ports, supports USB 3.22 ports, supports USB 3.2Coverage area (square feet) 3,0002,8005,0005,700Special features Parental controls, smartphone control, device prioritizationParental controls, smartphone app, supports Alexa and Google AssistantParental controls, smartphone control, device prioritizationParental controls, smartphone control, mobile gaming mode
Factors to consider before buying a gaming router
There’s a lot of jargon to wade through when you’re comparing gaming routers. Is it worth splurging on one that supports the new Wi-Fi 7 standard? Does your home require a mesh system or will a single router do the job? What in the world is 4K-QAM modulation? That's what I wanted to know, so I dug into the details on a personal quest to find the best router for gaming.Before buying any gaming routers, I recommend looking at CNET's beginner's guide to gaming lag to see how you can reduce your latency. You may not need a new router at all, and in many cases, moving your wireless router to a different spot or adjusting the antennas of your current router could improve your network and your online gaming performance. If you've tried all that and your gaming connection still needs an upgrade, here are some key things to keep in mind when shopping for routers.Wi-Fi technologyThese days, you’ll mostly see three Wi-Fi standards when shopping for a Wi-Fi router: Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E and Wi-Fi 7. (Some Wi-Fi 5 routers are still on the market, but you can safely pass them by at this point.) These numbers refer to the generation of standards; Wi-Fi 7 is the seventh iteration of Wi-Fi standards. All of these standards were developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), a worldwide association of technical professionals. When a device uses the latest standard, an organization called the Wi-Fi Alliance gives its stamp of approval to devices that meet its qualifications.
Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac)Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax)Wi-Fi 6E (802.11ax)Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) Frequency bands 5GHz2.4 and 5GHz2.4, 5 and 6GHz2.4, 5 and 6GHzMaximum bandwidth 80MHz160MHz160MHz320MHzMaximum speed 1.3Gbps9.6Gbps9.6Gbps46Gbps
Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be): Uses 2.4, 5 and 6GHz bands and doubles the channel size of the 6GHz band from 160 to 320MHz. A typical Wi-Fi 7 laptop could reach “potential maximum” speeds of 5.8Gbps -- 2.4 times faster than the 2.4Gbps possible with Wi-Fi 6 and 6E, according to Intel. Multi-Link Operation (MLO) also allows Wi-Fi 7 devices to simultaneously connect on two bands, providing improved reliability and ultra-low latency.Wi-Fi 6E (802.11ax): The first Wi-Fi standard to add in the 6GHz band along with 2.4 and 5GHz. Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax): A massive upgrade over Wi-Fi 5, Wi-Fi 6 was the first standard to allow your router to divide the channel it's using -- 2.4 or 5GHz --  to send its signals through smaller frequency allocations. This allowed for much faster speeds than the previous gen.Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac): Wi-Fi 5 used the 5GHz band exclusively. It was the first Wi-Fi standard to exceed 1Gbps maximum speeds, but its range is significantly less than Wi-Fi 6. If that sounds confusing, you’re not alone. The jump from Wi-Fi 6E to Wi-Fi 7 has been particularly technical. Even though both use the newly opened 6GHz band, only Wi-Fi 7 routers will get the MLO feature. “Whenever I spoke with the Wi-Fi Alliance, they always tried to make people forget that Wi-Fi 6E even existed,” said Nicholas De Leon, a reporter covering routers for Consumer Reports (no relation to CNET's Samantha De Leon). “It was kind of a stopgap, band-aid solution while on the road to Wi-Fi 7.”As if that wasn’t confusing enough, some Wi-Fi 7 routers don’t even use the 6GHz band. Our pick for the best budget Wi-Fi 7 router, the Netgear NightHawk RS100, is one of them. It’s one of the growing wave of “dual-band” Wi-Fi 7 routers, which is a bit of a stretch as they’re missing the most important part of the equation. But Wi-Fi 7 is about more than the 6GHz band, said David Coleman, director of wireless networking at Extreme Networks.“Wi-Fi 7 introduces several key upgrades that set it apart from tri-band Wi-Fi 6E routers,” Coleman said in an email. “For example, Wi-Fi 7 supports 320 MHz-wide channels  -- double the size of the widest channels in Wi-Fi 6E -- meaning it can deliver much higher data rates. It also brings 4K-QAM modulation, boosting transmission efficiency by up to 20% compared to Wi-Fi 6E.”Keep in mind that you’ll need a Wi-Fi 7 router and a Wi-Fi 7 device to take advantage of the standard’s improvements. When Wi-Fi 7 was officially launched in January 2024, very few devices could actually use it. Today, that list has expanded tremendously and includes the latest iPhones, Microsoft Surface laptops and PS5 Pro. These Wi-Fi standards are backward compatible, so a Wi-Fi 7 router will still work with a device that only has Wi-Fi 6. Likewise, you can use a Wi-Fi 6 router to game on a PS5 Pro -- you just won’t be able to fully take advantage of its improved speeds.Ethernet portsEthernet ports allow you to plug in a device directly to your router. A wired connection is inherently much stronger than Wi-Fi; in one test, a CNET writer got 395Mbps download speeds through Ethernet and 126Mbps through Wi-Fi. If there’s one device -- like a gaming console or PC -- that you absolutely want to get the best connection to, an Ethernet cable is the way to go. These are often marketed as “gigabit Ethernet ports,” which means they’re capable of delivering gigabit speeds through a wired connection. The more ports a router has, the more devices you can connect this way. Band support You’ll primarily see two types of gaming routers: tri-band and dual-band. Tri-band routers operate on the 2.4, 5 and 6GHz channels, while dual-band routers only use 2.4 and 5GHz. The 6GHz band is the key upgrade to Wi-Fi 6E and Wi-Fi 7 routers, but router companies are increasingly selling dual-band Wi-Fi 7 routers. These don’t get you on 6GHz, but they do have other Wi-Fi 7 features like MLO and 4K QAM. It’s a bit of a stretch to call these dual-band routers Wi-Fi 7 when they’re missing the 6GHz band, but they’re usually much cheaper than true tri-band Wi-Fi 7 routers.Gaming-specific featuresThe main feature that separates gaming routers from regular old Wi-Fi routers is quality of service (QoS) or bandwidth prioritization. This allows you to prioritize traffic to a specific device like a gaming console or PC, ensuring that it will always be first in line for your network’s fastest speeds. Some are more advanced than others. Our pick for the best Wi-Fi 6 gaming router, the Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000, comes equipped with Game Boost, an ASUS-specific QoS that prioritizes game data. In general, these features are best for the network nerds among us. Even if you don’t mess with them, a quality gaming router should still deliver a fast, lag-free gaming experience.Processor and RAMThe processor in a Wi-Fi router is like its brain. It determines how well it can manage your network’s traffic and perform multiple tasks simultaneously. All of our top picks use a quad-core processor (when publicly listed), which is the standard in 2025. Not all quad-core processors are created equally, though. The A73 processor used by the Eero Max 7, for instance, is considered significantly more advanced than the A53 processor used in the Eero Pro 6E. A router’s storage capacity can also impact how well it performs. This is usually broken up into RAM and flash. RAM, short for random-access memory, affects the router’s ability to process data, while flash storage typically houses the router’s settings. Range and coverage Will a single gaming router be able to broadcast a Wi-Fi signal throughout your entire home? No matter how good the router, you’ll always see a significant speed dropoff in rooms far away from the router. Many Wi-Fi routers list coverage areas north of 5,000 square feet but I recommend switching to a mesh system if your home is larger than 2,500 square feet. That said, it’s a matter of percentages. If you have a multi-gig internet plan, you’ll still get plenty of speed for streaming TV or browsing social media in a far corner of a 5,000 square foot home. But you'll probably have issues if you’re only starting with 100Mbps.Additionally, the type of home you live in -- not just the size -- can impact your Wi-Fi signal.“A lot of it depends upon housing construction,” said De Leon. “I've got family down in Puerto Rico and Florida where a lot of the houses are concrete, and that obviously just destroys Wi-Fi signals.”Network security and protectionAny router you look at should have WPA3 certification at a minimum. This is the most recent security protocol issued by the Wi-Fi Alliance, and it ensures that the router follows best practices that make passwords harder to crack and encrypt data. “Honestly, as long as it has WPA3, that's probably the big security thing to look for,” said De Leon.He also recommended looking for routers that support automatic firmware updates. Not all of the routers CNET recommends automatically update their firmware. One of the manufacturers I spoke with said they’ve received “quite vocal feedback from the community” against them, as they can affect network performance. Whether it’s automatic or not, the main thing to know is that the manufacturer regularly issues updates, and that they’re easy to install. Mobile apps and user interfaceAll of the gaming routers we recommend come with a mobile app that helps you control your home network. This is essential for things like setting up your Wi-Fi network, updating your router’s firmware and using gaming features. I didn’t notice a lot of separation between the apps on the gaming routers we tested, but this could impact your experience if you plan on customizing your network to prioritize gaming devices.Parental controlsParental controls are pretty standard on Wi-Fi routers these days, and that includes the gaming routers I recommend above. These can be accessed through the router’s app and allow you to automatically restrict access to specific websites or any adult content. You can often set up a schedule where a device can access Wi-Fi as well, or even set daily limits. Number of antennas and placement optionsYou’d think the more antennas a Wi-Fi router has, the stronger you can expect its signal strength to be, but the router with the best signal strength scores in our testing was the ASUS RT-AX86U Pro, which only has three external and one internal antenna. External antennas allow you to direct the Wi-Fi signal toward specific areas in your home, but I didn’t see much of a difference in performance between internal and external antenna routers. More important is the placement of the router. It should ideally be a few feet off the ground, in a central location of your home and away from any walls or electronics.  How we test gaming routers
CNET uses custom-made scripts to carry out our testing and data analysis. We focus on three main measurements when testing routers: speed, reliability and distance. We want to know how well a router will translate the internet coming in from your provider to a wireless connection, and we want to know how far it can do it -- even with obstacles like walls and floors in the way. To capture all three of these, we conduct two types of tests: data throughput and signal strength measurements. CNET’s testing is unique because we remove the internet provider from the equation entirely. Even the most reliable internet connections are fairly erratic: factors like time of day, network congestion and even the condition of your neighborhood’s broadband infrastructure can all affect your internet speed. To make sure these variables didn’t skew our analysis of each router, we set up a separate server to measure the raw throughput of data from the router to a device, bypassing the need for an internet connection entirely.  Learn more: How We Test Wi-Fi RoutersData throughput tests
Here I am running a throughput test at close distance from the router.
Adam Breeden/CNETTo see how fast a router will perform in real-world conditions, we measure its throughput, or the volume of data that a router actually transmits during a period of time. All Wi-Fi signals travel through 2.5GHz and 5GHz radio frequencies -- that’s why most routers you’ll see are referred to as “dual-band.” (Tri-band routers use an extra set of channels in the 6GHz band.) To start, we conduct a wired measurement on the 2.5GHz, 5GHz and, when available, 6GHz bands to establish a baseline. This is as fast as throughput can get for the router over each band, so it’s a good point of comparison for our wireless tests. From there, we take five different wireless throughput measurements, 60 seconds each, mimicking a household with five devices connected to the router with different throughput needs. These wireless measurements are taken from three different distances from the router: 7 feet, 25 feet and 50 feet. As any online gamer or remote worker can tell you, speed isn’t the only factor in evaluating routers. Just as important is jitter, which measures the variations in latency, or the time it takes for data to arrive at its destination. When you’re in a video meeting and there’s a delay in audio or someone’s video freezes, jitter is the culprit. We felt jitter was a better measure than latency when evaluating a router, as average latency can show up in testing as low, even when an internet connection is glitchy.  These tests also captured packet loss, which tells us whether any data failed to reach its destination during the test. You’ll often see packet loss as a frozen video screen or a garbled voice during a video call. With both packet loss and jitter, a lower score is better. Signal strengthThe second step in our testing is to measure each router’s wireless signal strength and broadcasting capability. To capture this, we used NetSpot, a wireless site survey and analysis tool. This test also shows how well a router handles interference from other objects and networks you’d find in your home, like TVs or your neighbor’s Wi-Fi. CNET’s labs have many electronics being tested around the facility, and it shares walls with other businesses, so there’s plenty of interference for a router to work through. We taped targets in 61 locations around CNET’s 12,500-square-foot testing facility to see how well each router transmitted data through obstacles like walls and electronics. As expected, the 2.4GHz band had better range than the 5GHz band, which sends a stronger signal at a closer range.
The ASUS RT-AX86U Pro, our pick for the best router for larger homes, has excellent range on the 2.4GHz band, as shown above. Samantha De Leon/CNETIn the signal strength maps, the numbers refer to decibels relative to a milliwatt (dBm), and they indicate how strong the Wi-Fi signal is at a given location. A value like -55 dBm is considered strong enough and typically correlates with high throughput. Here’s how to interpret the numbers on signal strength maps:-15 dBm – Extremely strong (almost on top of the router)-30 dBm – Excellent signal-45 dBm – Very good signal-60 dBm – Good, supports most tasks-75 dBm – Weak, may see drops in speed/stability< -80 dBm – Very poor, likely unstable or unusableIn the example above, the ASUS RT-AX86U Pro never dipped below -55dBm -- even when it was on the other side of the 12,500 square foot lab. That’s incredible range for a standalone Wi-Fi router.  Other gaming routers CNET tested
In total, we tested 31 routers at CNET’s lab in this initial round, and we’re constantly trying out new models as they become available. Here are some other top performers for gaming that barely missed the cut. Eero Max 7: This was CNET’s pick for the best Wi-Fi 7 router overall, but with a steep price tag of $600, I couldn’t recommend it in good conscience for gamers specifically. While its data throughput scores were exceptional on all three bands, it was disappointing when it came to jitter and packet loss, where it ranked well behind our top choices for gaming routers.Netgear Nighthawk RS700S: This was the fastest router we tested on the 6GHz band, but it finished near last place on 5GHz. That might not be a big deal if all your devices are Wi-Fi 7 compatible, but that’s not the case for most of us. If you’re going to spend $500 on a router, the Eero Max 7 is a more well-rounded choice. Netgear Nighthawk RS300: There’s a ton of value here. A tri-band Wi-Fi 7 router for under $300 is a rarity, and the Nighthawk RS300 delivered on every single band. Ultimately, the Eero Max 7 was slightly faster on every single band and had better all-around jitter and packet loss results, so it earned our top pick for the best Wi-Fi 7 router. But at half the cost, the Nighthawk RS300 isn’t a huge step down in performance.   Synology WRX50: This Wi-Fi router actually scored first place in our 2.4GHz tests, earning a throughput score of 127Mbps. It’s everywhere else that it lagged behind. It was the 19th fastest router on the 5GHz band, and its packet loss scores were close to the bottom. That might be forgivable for a budget router, but at $243, the WRX50 is definitely not that.TP-Link Archer AX21: This was one of the cheapest Wi-Fi routers we tested, currently on sale for $55, and it generally performed like it. It ranked 20th in throughput on the 2.4GHz band and 17th on 5GHz. That sounds pretty mediocre, but it translates to 700Mbps on 5GHz -- far more horsepower than most homes need -- and its signal strength was impressive, too. I still think it’s worth paying $20 more for the TP-Link Deco X55 Pro, but if you’re looking for the absolute cheapest gaming router you can find that still works, the AX21 is a worthy option. TP-Link Archer AXE75: A tri-band Wi-Fi 6E router for $130 sounds a little too good to be true. In fact, TP-Link is currently being investigated by the Justice Department for potentially selling goods below cost (more on that here). But there’s no denying this router’s value. It performed well on all three bands, and while it’s missing some of the newer features of Wi-Fi 7, it still gets you access to the ultrawide 6GHz band for an incredible price.
Gaming router FAQs
What's the difference between a gaming router and a regular router?
There’s no technical difference between a gaming router and a regular router, but gaming routers typically come with features useful for online gaming, like quality of service (QoS) that allows you to prioritize traffic to specific devices.
Do I need Wi-Fi 6E or Wi-Fi 7 for gaming?
No, but it doesn’t hurt. Wi-Fi 6E and most Wi-Fi 7 routers give you access to the ultrawide 6GHz band. You also need a device that can connect to 6GHz, which many newer laptops and gaming consoles like the PS5 Pro can do. This ultrawide band gets you faster speeds and lower latency than the bands utilized by Wi-Fi 6 routers, but that doesn’t mean you can’t have a smooth gaming experience without it. Our pick for the best Wi-Fi 6 gaming router, the , outperformed a number of Wi-Fi 6E and 7 routers in gaming metrics.
What router features actually reduce lag?
The router features that actually reduce lag are quality of service (QoS) features that allow you to prioritize traffic to a specific device. Some models, like gaming routers from Asus, come with specific features like “Triple-level Game Acceleration” that optimize traffic to ensure the best performance for online gaming.
How do I properly set up a gaming router?
In general, setting up a gaming router is no different than any other Wi-Fi router. You’ll likely need to download the manufacturer’s app, which will walk you through setting up your home network. If the router comes equipped with gaming-specific features, you can access them through the smartphone app or a web browser.
How much should I spend on a gaming router?
You don’t need to spend much more than $200 to effectively eliminate lag from your gaming experience. When you spend a lot on a Wi-Fi router, you’re usually paying more for access to the ultrawide 6GHz band. But that’s not absolutely essential for a smooth gaming experience. Many of the routers we tested in the $100 to $200 range outperformed routers that cost three times as much in the key metrics for gamers: jitter and packet loss.
About the Author
Joe Supan Senior Writer Joe Supan Senior Writer
Joe Supan is a senior writer for CNET covering home technology, broadband, and moving. Prior to joining CNET, Joe led MyMove's moving coverage and reported on broadband policy, the digital divide, and privacy issues for the broadband marketplace Allconnect. He has been featured as a guest columnist on Broadband Breakfast, and his work has been referenced by the Los Angeles Times, Forbes, National Geographic, Yahoo! Finance and more.
Read full bio
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.