Maple Apple Pie Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Cinnamon Apple Cheesecake
Maple and Cream Apple Pie
Cheddar Pear Pie
Cheesecake Pie
Apple Pie Cheesecake
Maple Syrup Pie
Apple Pie with Cheese
Cranberry-Almond Apple Pie
Cheddar Apple Pizza
Apple Cream Cheese Pie
Apple-Cherry Cream Cheese Pie
Maple-Glazed Apple Pie
Apple-Cheddar Pancakes with Bacon
Vermont Maple-Pecan Cake
Spiced Apple Cheesecake
Apple Danish Cheesecake
Cheesecake with Caramel Apple Topping
Browned Butter Apple Pie with Cheddar Crust
Apple Cobbler Cheesecake
Apple Cheddar Muffins
Vermont Maple-Apple Pie with Cheddar Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesPiesApple Pies
Maple Apple Pie
Vermont Maple-Apple Pie with Cheddar Recipe photo by Taste of Home
5 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Bake: 1 hr. 10 min. + cooling
By
Suzanne Podhaizer
Recipe by Suzanne Podhaizer, St. Johnsbury, Vermont
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on May 05, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Tiny, rural Vermont is famous for its apples, for dairy cows and for producing more maple syrup than any other state. This delicious maple apple pie, with sharp cheddar cheese melted on each slice, combines the state's finest ingredients.
In early spring, when the snow comes up to our shins here in Vermont, my partner and I walk through the woods, drilling holes in maple trees and inserting taps. We then wait for the weather to warm up and the clear sap to trickle from each spout, which is when we can collect and simmer the sap over a wood fire until it turns a rich, dark amber color. That homemade maple syrup fuels our cooking and baking for the rest of the year. And while there are many recipes with maple syrup we love, one of our favorite dishes to make with this bounty is maple apple pie.
Apple pie is also Vermont’s official state pie, per a bill passed by the legislature in 1999. The bill mandated that when apple pie is served, a “good faith” effort should be made to serve it with a glass of milk, a scoop of vanilla ice cream or a slice of cheddar cheese weighing at least 1/2 ounce. At our house, we go the cheddar cheese route, melting the cheese right onto each slice.
Ingredients for Maple Apple Pie
Butter: Unsalted butter (vs. salted butter) works well in this recipe because you’ll be adding some salt to the filling.
Baking apples: Make sure you’re buying a variety of apple that’s good for baking (read: apples that won’t turn to applesauce as the pie cooks).
Brown sugar: Light or dark brown sugar will work fine in this recipe. However, know that light brown sugar has a lighter molasses flavor than dark brown sugar, so it won’t compete as much with the maple flavor. If you don’t have brown sugar at home, white sugar will work too.
Pie spices: Cinnamon, nutmeg and a little bit of salt give warm flavors to the apple filling.
Maple syrup: For this maple syrup apple pie, use real maple syrup and not pancake syrup. Vermonters like to cook with dark maple syrup (formerly called Grade B) because it has a robust maple flavor. Once you fall in love with real-deal syrup, you’ll want to try lots of other maple recipes.
Lemon: Lemon zest adds a wonderful fragrant flavor to the pie, and fresh lemon juice gives it extra zip. After you remove the zest with a Microplane-style grater, you can juice the lemons using a food processor or citrus reamer. Or, just squeeze ’em!
Flour: Between the juices that are released from the apples, the lemon juice and the maple syrup, this is an extra-juicy pie filling. Flour thickens the liquid in the filling to prevent the pie crust from getting soggy. You can choose to use other pie thickeners like cornstarch if you prefer.
Pie crusts: To make this recipe easy, we call for store-bought pie crusts. However, feel free to prepare homemade pie crust.
Extra sharp cheddar cheese: Cabot cheddar cheese is made in Vermont and is available throughout the country, so it’s the perfect brand of cheese to use atop a Vermont-style maple apple pie. If you can’t find extra sharp, plain old sharp cheddar will do!
Directions
Step 1: Start the apple filling
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the apple slices and cook, stirring occasionally, until the apples are soft and have released some of their juices, seven to eight minutes. Reduce the heat to medium-low.
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
While the apples are cooking, combine the salt, brown sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg in a small bowl. In another small bowl, combine the maple syrup, lemon zest and lemon juice.
Editor’s Tip: Taste an apple slice. If the apples are super sweet, add an additional teaspoon of lemon juice. If they’re extra-tart, reduce the lemon juice by 1 teaspoon to balance everything out.
Step 2: Finish the filling
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
After the apples are done cooking, add the brown sugar and maple syrup mixtures to the skillet. Stir in the flour and bring to a simmer, stirring constantly, until the juices have thickened, three to four minutes.
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
Scoop the filling into a metal or glass bowl, and let it cool for 10 minutes on the countertop. Then, refrigerate the filling until it’s cool to the touch.
Step 3: Bake the pie
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425°F. Press one crust into the bottom of an ungreased 9-inch deep-dish pie plate. Add the apple filling and spread it into an even layer.
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
Place the second crust on top and pinch the edges together to seal the crusts. Use a knife to cut a few slits on the top. Bake 15 to 20 minutes, then reduce the oven temperature to 375°. Bake for an additional 35 to 40 minutes or until the crust is golden brown. Remove from the oven; let the pie cool for four hours or until the filling is set.
Editor’s Tip: When the pie is done, the top crust should be nice and golden, the pie should smell fragrant when you open the oven and the filling should be bubbling up through the vents you cut into the top crust.
Step 4: Melt on some cheddar
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
Just before serving, preheat the oven to 425°. Cut the pie into eight slices. Lay about 1 ounce of sliced cheese on each piece, and bake until the cheese is melted and bubbly, three to four minutes. Serve warm.
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
Maple Apple Pie Variations
Mix in maple sugar: For extra Vermont-y vibes and a more robust maple flavor, use maple sugar in place of brown sugar. (You can use the same amount.) Keep the quantity of maple syrup the same.
Add more lemon zest: If you love the flavor of lemon zest, you can add the zest of a whole lemon rather than measuring the zest by the teaspoon.
Make the crust cheesy: Want to make the crust from scratch? Try snagging the cheddar cheese crust recipe from our browned-butter apple pie. It’s the perfect match for a maple syrup apple pie.
Amp up the spices: For a more nuanced filling, reduce the amount of cinnamon to 1 teaspoon and mix in some additional seasonings, such as allspice, ginger and a hint of cloves. Or, go for some store-bought or homemade pumpkin pie spice.
How to Store Maple Apple Pie
Some folks like to store pie on the counter, but it’s recommended that you store apple pie in the refrigerator in an airtight container or in its pie dish covered tightly with storage wrap, aluminum foil or both.
How long does maple apple pie last?
Eat up your apple and maple syrup pie within four days.
Can you make maple apple pie ahead of time?
The crust will be the most crisp and lovely on the first day, before the pie has been refrigerated. Overall, though, apple pie holds up nicely and will be excellent for several days.
Can you freeze maple apple pie?
Yes, but it’s best to do it prior to baking because pre-baked frozen pies can end up with soggy crusts. Prepare your apple pie in a disposable pie dish, make sure it’s tightly wrapped and freeze the pie until you’re ready to eat it. For the best quality, use the pie within three months and move it directly from the freezer into a preheated oven.
Maple Apple Pie Tips
Ellie Crowley for Taste of Home
What kinds of apples are best for apple pie?
That depends on where you live. Some apple trees grow beautifully in places with temperate weather and a long warm season. Others thrive in cooler climates. Here in Vermont, some of the best apples for apple pie include Cortland and Empire. Ultra-popular Honeycrisp apples make nice pies too. Northern Spy, Braeburn, Gala and Jonagold are good for baking as well.
What can I put on my pie instead of cheese?
As the aforementioned Vermont law indicates, apple pie is a great base for a scoop of ice cream. Vanilla is the classic flavor for pie topping, and we think that Ben & Jerry’s, which is also from Vermont, is one of the best vanilla ice cream brands. Want to branch out? Ben & Jerry’s has other flavors that would work, including Salted Caramel, Churray for Churros and Oat of This Swirled.
A dollop of homemade whipped cream, or even just a glug of heavy cream from the container, would make a simple and lovely addition.
Can I make my own crust?
New Englanders love a butter-based pie crust, so consider making a double batch of classic butter pie pastry for this dessert.
Test Kitchen Approved
Vermont Maple-Apple Pie with Cheddar
5 | 1 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:8 slices
Prep:20 min
Cook:1 hour 10 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
6 medium (about 2-1/2 pounds) sweet baking apples, such as Cortland, Empire or Honeycrisp, cored and sliced
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup packed brown sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3/4 cup maple syrup
2 tablespoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons grated lemon zest
2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons all-purpose flour
2 frozen pie crust (9 inches)
8 ounces extra-sharp cheddar cheese, cut into thin slices
Text Ingredients
Directions
Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add apple slices; cook, stirring occasionally, until apples are soft and have released some of their juices, 7-8 minutes. Reduce heat to medium-low.
While apples are cooking, in a small bowl, combine salt, brown sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg. In another small bowl, combine maple syrup, lemon juice and lemon zest. Once apples are soft, add both mixtures to the skillet. Stir in flour; bring to a simmer, stirring constantly, until juices have thickened, 3-4 minutes.
Scoop the filling into a metal or glass bowl; let cool 10 minutes. Refrigerate until cool to the touch.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425°. Press one crust into the bottom of an ungreased 9-in. deep dish pie plate. Add the cooled apple filling; spread into an even layer. Place the second crust on top; pinch the edges together to seal the crusts. Use a knife to cut a few slits on the top. Bake 15-20 minutes; reduce oven temperature to 375°. Bake an additional 35-40 minutes or until crust is golden brown. Remove from the oven; let cool 4 hours or until filling is set.
Just before serving, preheat oven to 425°. Cut pie into 8 slices. Lay approximately 1 oz of cheese on top of each piece; bake until cheese is melted and bubbly, 3-4 minutes. Serve warm.
Nutrition Facts
1 slice: 534 calories, 24g fat (10g saturated fat), 40mg cholesterol, 502mg sodium, 75g carbohydrate (43g sugars, 3g fiber), 9g protein.
Author
Suzanne Podhaizer
Suzanne is a chef, farmer and award-winning food writer living in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont. In her years as a restaurateur, caterer and cooking teacher, she has developed hundreds of recipes, most of which center around seasonal food. At Taste of Home, Suzanne shares even more of her fantastic recipes, from meatballs to mochi doughnuts.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Each spring, we tap maple trees and make our own syrup at our home in Northeastern Vermont. We spend the rest of the year inventing delicious ways to use it all up—this maple apple pie included! Maple and apples are a winning combination, and snacking on well-aged cheddar while eating apple pie is a Vermont tradition. —Suzanne Podhaizer, St. Johnsbury, Vermont
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box