Add essential ports to your laptop with the Baseus 12-in-1 docking station, now on sale for $70
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Add essential ports to your laptop with the Baseus 12-in-1 docking station, now on sale for $70
Source: Baseus
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 2, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Baseus Laptop Docking Station
$70
$100
Save $30
A great way to add new ports to your laptop without spending a lot of money. Grab this sleek Baseus 12-in-1 docking station for just $70.
$70 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
Laptops have become the go-to tool for most people, whether you're using them at home, at the office, or on the go. Of course, there are sacrifices that need to be made in order to achieve the desired portability, especially when it comes to the port selection on many laptops. Luckily, USB hubs and docking stations exist, providing an easy way to add ports to any laptop.
This Baseus docking station is a great example and features 12 ports, while also offering a compact and seamless way to integrate them into any laptop. It's also on sale right now for $70, which is $30 below its usual retail price, making it a great time to pick one up. So if you've been looking for an easy way to add ports to your laptop, this docking station is going to be a great way to do it.
What's great about this Baseus 12-in-1 docking station?
Source: Baseus
The important part of any docking station or USB hub is the ports that you're getting. With this Baseus model, you get a good selection, with two USB-C ports, three USB-A, a 3.5mm audio jack, an SD card slot, microSD card slot, Ethernet, DisplayPort, and two HDMI ports.
As you can imagine, this allows you to easily connect to multiple monitors, while also having new ways to connect accessories as well. In addition to laptops, you can also use this docking station with other devices as well, like PCs, tablets, smartphones, and even PC gaming handhelds.
Plus, you also get wide compatibility as well, with Windows, ChromeOS, macOS, Linux, and more being supported. Not a bad package for just $70. And the reviews on Amazon are also pretty favorable as well. So grab this docking station for $70 while it's on sale to save.
Keyboards & Mice
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
You, too, can build this awesome foam dart shooting gallery with an ESP32
Sep 9, 2025
Forget Apple's Awe Dropping event: someone just recovered 54 lost iPod clickwheel games, and it's the 2000s again
Sep 9, 2025
I use TrueNAS in a Proxmox VM, and I prefer it over bare metal
Sep 10, 2025
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with an ESP32 than a Raspberry Pi
Today's best deals
Elevate your workspace with this sleek and feature-packed docking station
2 hours ago
Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
13 hours ago
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Activepieces is a self-hosted automation suite powered by your local LLM
News flash: cable management isn't the nightmare it used to be
Winux is a Linux distro that looks like Windows 11, but that's not a good thing
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.