Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is off by default and hidden - turn it on now | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
Android
Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is off by default and hidden - turn it on now
Google's toughest security tools are behind a single toggle. Switch it on to protect yourself from theft, scams, spam, and more.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 12:00 p.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysAdvanced Protection locks key Android 16 security settings.Blocks sideloading, spam, unsafe links, and insecure networks.Not on by default. You must enable it in settings.Google's earlier-than-expected release of Android 16 had a few important features missing at launch, but it did roll out with hardened security settings you shouldn't ignore.The most important change is Advanced Protection. It's a one-tap mode that enables Google's strongest security and privacy features. Instead of hunting through many menus to secure your phone, you now have a quick way to lock down your device and better protect yourself against theft, unsafe apps, insecure networks, scams, and spam.
Also: How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big differenceIt's like Google's version of Apple's Lockdown Mode. But it isn't turned on by default, since it enforces stricter safeguards that can occasionally cause friction. While there may be some trade-offs, Advanced Protection is for those who care about security and want to keep their phone ultra protected.
How to enable Advanced Protection
What you'll need: Advanced Protection requires Android 16, so first make sure your device is up to date. Go to Settings > System > Software update (or System update on some devices), and then follow the prompts to install any updates. Android 16 is available now on supported Google Pixel phones, with other brands coming later this year.
1. Open the Advanced Protection settings menu
Advanced Protection brings multiple security settings together in one place, but you'll need a screen lock set up before you can enable it. Once that's in place, go to Settings > Security and privacy on your Android 16 device.Open Settings.Tap Security and privacy.Select Advanced Protection (you may find it under Other settings).
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
2. Turn on Device protection
Advanced Protection is off by default on your Android device, so you'll need to switch it on to use it.Under Advanced Protection, toggle on Device protection.Select Turn on.If prompted, restart your phone.Also: Google is killing the Android phone feature that once made them popular - and there's a big reason why
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
3. Optional: Enroll your Google account
Once you turn on Advanced Protection on your Android device, you should enroll your Google account to further strengthen your security across Gmail, Drive, and other services. Once enrolled, signing in to your Google Account or related products will require a passkey or security key since these methods are more secure.Go to Advanced Protection in your Google Account settings and sign in.Follow the on-screen steps to enroll -- you may be asked to set up a passkey or security key, and to add a recovery phone and email.Select Enroll to finish enrollment.Also: The best Android phones to buyIf you ever want to unenroll your Google Account from Advanced Protection, go back to this screen (Google Account profile icon > Manage your Google Account > Security > Advanced Protection Program > Manage Advanced Protection) and select Unenroll.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFAQs
What is Advanced Protection on Android?
Advanced Protection in Android 16 combines multiple security settings across six categories into one switch. Turning it on will lock certain features so they can't be disabled individually, and it activates more protections.Also: I unlocked hidden menus on my iPhone and Android with 14 secret codesHere's what it does, specifically, on your device, according to Google:
AppsGoogle Play Protect: Always-on malware scanning that cannot be turned off.Unknown apps: Blocks installs from outside Google Play, including sideloading.Memory Tagging Extension (MTE): On supported devices, automatically enabled to stop memory corruption.Device safetyTheft detection lock: Locks your phone after a suspicious motion.Offline device lock: Locks automatically when the phone goes offline.Inactivity reboot: Reboots after 72 hours locked.MessagesSpam and scam protection: Filters and flags harmful texts.Unsafe links: Warns about suspicious links from unknown senders.Network2G network protection: Prevents your phone from connecting to insecure 2G networks (on supported devices).PhoneCaller ID and spam: Identifies suspect calls before you answer.Automatic Call Screen: In supported regions, Google's AI screens and declines spam calls automatically.WebSafe browsing: Blocks phishing and malicious websites.Chrome HTTPS enforcement: Forces HTTPS whenever possible.JavaScript protections: Disables Chrome's JavaScript optimizer to reduce attack risks.
Why isn't Advanced Protection enabled by default?
Some aspects, such as blocking sideloaded apps or automatically screening calls, may cause issues for certain users. So, it's optional, even though it offers stronger security.
Does Advanced Protection block sideloaded apps?
Yes. It blocks installations from unknown sources -- so you can't sideload apps outside the Play Store while it's enabled.
Will Advanced Protection slow down my phone or make it harder to use?
You won't notice much difference. The biggest trade-offs are losing the ability to sideload apps and occasional issues with spam and call screening.
What exactly happens if my phone is stolen?
If your phone is stolen, Advanced Protection is helpful. It includes Theft Detection Lock, which automatically locks your phone if it's grabbed from your hand or moved suddenly. It also has Offline Device Lock, which locks the device when it loses connection, and Inactivity Reboot, which forces a reboot if the phone stays locked for 72 hours.
Do I need Google Account Advanced Protection?
Separate from the device toggle, Google Account Advanced Protection secures your online account (Gmail, Drive, Docs, and more).Also: The best secure browsers for privacy in 2025: Expert testedIt's an opt-in program that requires stronger sign-in methods, such as passkeys or physical security keys, and limits third-party access to your data. Unlike Android's Advanced Protection, which focuses on your phone and local data, this program protects your online account and data in the cloud. For the highest level of security, especially if you're at high risk, both are worth enabling.
Show more
Security
How passkeys work: Your passwordless journey begins here
This infamous people search site is back after leaking 3 billion records - how to remove your data from it ASAP
Syncable vs. non-syncable passkeys: Are roaming authenticators the best of both worlds?
Yes, you need a firewall on Linux - here's why and which to use
How passkeys work: Your passwordless journey begins here
This infamous people search site is back after leaking 3 billion records - how to remove your data from it ASAP
Syncable vs. non-syncable passkeys: Are roaming authenticators the best of both worlds?
Yes, you need a firewall on Linux - here's why and which to use
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
Changing 10 settings on my Samsung phone gave it a big performance boost
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use