What to Know Before Visiting Scotland for the First Time; Mistakes - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I visited Scotland for the first time. My trip was great, but it would've been better if I'd known these 5 things beforehand.
By
Gentry Hale
There are some things I wish I'd known before visiting Scotland for the first time.
Gentry Hale
2025-09-23T14:14:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
My trip to Scotland was a dream, but there are a few things I wish I'd known before visiting.
For example, it's important to pack the right clothes based on the weather and your itinerary.
Researching the region's history beforehand can make the experience even better.
Misty mornings, green hills, Highland cows, and blood pudding were a few of the many things I was excited to experience on my trip to Scotland. Luckily, the country delivered this and so much more.
Even though the trip met all of my magical expectations, I still managed to make some mistakes.Here are five things I wish I had known before my trip to Scotland.
It's important to pack the right clothes
I wish I'd packed more layers.
Gentry Hale
I'm notorious for not knowing what to pack for vacation, and this trip was no different.I traveled to Scotland in the spring, when the weather was still pretty chilly, and I wasn't ready for the wind, rain, and damp air. I brought a puffy jacket, but I didn't pack enough layers to stay comfortable during my outdoor excursions.Next time, I'd definitely bring a windbreaker and plenty of warm base layers.
It's good etiquette to learn how to pronounce the names of the places you're visitingMispronouncing the names of places is practically a tourist rite of passage, but I wish I'd done a little research online ahead of time.For example, Edinburgh is pronounced "Eh-din-bur-uh" and Glasgow is pronounced "Glas-go."I also stayed in Fochabers during my trip, which is pronounced "Fock-a-bers." I mispronounced it when I first arrived, and my taxi driver didn't even try to hide his sigh.
Looking back, it would have been polite to familiarize myself with these things before landing in the country.The best recovery after a flight isn't a drink — it's proper rest
I should've rested after my overnight flight.
Gentry Hale
I landed in Scotland after an overnight flight with zero sleep, and my solution was to start sipping. However, this probably wasn't a smart idea.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
My high-tail to the high-proof probably extended my jetlag, and looking back, I should've taken the first night for hydration, rest, lower-back stretching, and recovery.
I spent my entire second day in a jet-lagged daze, and I felt like I missed a good portion of my trip because of it. My advice? Save the alcohol for night two — it's not going anywhere.Learning about the area beforehand can make for a better experienceI like to immerse myself in a country's history while I'm actually there, experiencing it firsthand. But when it comes to Scotland, I wish I'd done more research ahead of time.I learned bits and pieces about the country during my trip, but on my flight home, I finally read all about the rivalries, battles, royal disagreements, and more.
If I had spent a few minutes reading up on the history and famous landmarks beforehand, it would have changed how I experienced the trip.Scotland has a fascinating history, and in my opinion, travel is much more meaningful when you know what you're looking at.I should've left space in the schedule for free time
Next time, I won't pack my schedule so tightly.
Gentry Hale
My packed itinerary was filled with things such as salmon fishing, hiking, walled-garden tours, hearty meals, and Highland Games. However, I left no room to simply wander.
I was so focused on fitting in everything I wanted to see that I felt like I didn't have time to soak in the atmosphere.Next time, I'm staying longer, exploring more of the country, and wandering without an agenda.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account