EPA Accessibility Statement | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental TopicsAirBed BugsChemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency ResponseEnvironmental Information by Location HealthLand, Waste, and CleanupLeadMoldRadonResearchScience TopicsWater TopicsA-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & RegulationsBy Business SectorBy TopicComplianceEnforcementGuidanceLaws and Executive OrdersRegulations
Report a Violation
Report a ViolationEnvironmental ViolationsFraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPAOur Mission and What We DoHeadquarters OfficesRegional OfficesLabs and Research CentersPlanning, Budget, and ResultsOrganization ChartEPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
Accessibility
EPA Accessibility Statement
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is committed to making our programs, benefits, services, facilities, and information and communications technology (ICT) accessible to everyone, per federal laws and regulations.
On this page, we provide information about:
Digital Accessibility (Section 508)
Reasonable Accommodation (Section 501)
Architectural Barriers Act
EPA Sponsored Public Meetings
Telecommunications Relay Service
How to Submit a Disability Concern or Complaint
Digital Accessibility (Section 508)
EPA is committed to providing equitable access to ICT for all. To meet this commitment, EPA will comply with the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C § 794 (d)). You can read more about how the EPA implements Section 508 as a policy and through procedures.
Section 508 requires agencies to ensure federal employees and members of the public with disabilities have access, and use of information and data unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. Access provided to individuals with disabilities must be comparable to access provided to individuals without disabilities.
When the development, procurement, maintenance, or use of electronic and information technology that meets the Section 508 standards would impose an undue burden; the EPA shall provide individuals with disabilities an alternative means of accessing the information or data.
The Section 508 standards are the technical requirements and criteria used to measure conformance within this law. In 2018, Revised Section 508 Standards went into effect. This update harmonized the standards with other guidelines and standards in the U.S. and abroad, including the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.0) from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). WCAG is a globally recognized voluntary consensus standard for web content and ICT. More information on Section 508 and the technical standards can be found at Section508.gov
If you have any questions or comments about Section 508 at the EPA please email the Section 508 Program Manager, Sarah Sorathia.
Reasonable Accommodation (Section 501)
Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 prohibits disability discrimination and addresses the need to provide a reasonable accommodation to qualified individuals with disabilities who are federal employees or applicants for federal employment. Reasonable accommodations can be modifications or adjustments to a job, employment practice, or work environment that makes it possible for an employee with a disability to:
Perform essential job duties;
Adhere to uniformly applied conduct rules; and
Enjoy equal benefits/privileges of employment.
EPA job applicants with a disability can request reasonable accommodations that are modifications or adjustments to provide equal access during the application process.
To learn about reasonable accommodations at EPA, please visit the Office of Civil Rights Reasonable Accommodation page.
Architectural Barriers Act
The Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (ABA) generally requires that buildings or facilities that were designed, built, or altered with federal dollars or leased by federal agencies be accessible for individuals with disabilities. The US Access Board is the federal agency responsible for enforcing the ABA.
U.S. Access Board’s accessibility guidelines and standards
File an Architectural Barriers Act Complaint
For information on enforcement of the ABA at EPA facilities, please contact the Office of Mission Support, Office of Administration Director Yvette Jackson at 202-564-2165 or jackson.yvette@epa.gov.
EPA Sponsored Public Meetings
If you are a member of the public planning to attend an EPA-sponsored meeting and you are a person with a disability or you need reasonable accommodation and/or auxiliary aids and services to participate in such events, please email LanguageInterpretationTranslationRequest@epa.gov to request services free of charge.
Telecommunications Relay Service
Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS) allow persons who are deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind, or have speech disabilities to communicate by telephone in a manner that is functionally equivalent to telephone services used by persons without such disabilities.
How to Submit a Disability Concern or Complaint
Do you have a Section 508/digital accessibility question or concern?
Please email the EPA Section 508 Program with your digital accessibility question or concern. When applicable, please include the web address or URL. If you would like to raise an accessibility concern that is not based upon discrimination on the basis of disability, you may email the Section 508 Program Manager, Sarah Sorathia regarding the issue. Please include specific details and your contact information so the issue can be fully understood.
Do you have a disability complaint?
If you believe you have been discriminated against, you must contact a representative within the Office of Civil Rights within 45 calendar days of the alleged discriminatory event. If you would like to file a disability discrimination complaint based on non-compliance with the requirements of Section 508, please review the Equal Employment Opportunity page. EPA handles Section 508 complaints the same way it handles other complaints related to disability discrimination. EPA Regional or Lab Office employees should contact their Regional and Geographic Office contact as identified at EEO Contacts. EPA Headquarters’ employees and members of the public should call the Office of Civil Rights, at 202-564-7272.
Last Updated: July 30, 2024
Accessibility
Open Sidenav Menu
Close Sidenav Menu
Learn about Section 508
Section 508 Policies and Procedures
For Grantees
For Vendors
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us about Section 508 Accessibility
Contact Us about Section 508 Accessibility
to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on July 9, 2025
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.