PowerToys finally fixes two major problems, but the real surprise is what's coming next
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
PowerToys finally fixes two major problems, but the real surprise is what's coming next
By
Rahul Naskar
Published Sep 2, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
PowerToys 0.94 adds a new search feature for quick access to toggles.
Shortcut conflicts now show in red, and the Home dashboard displays your conflict count.
Version 0.95 teases a couple of major features.
It's the beginning of a month, and that also kicks off a fresh wave of features and updates for several Microsoft apps and services. This time around, the software giant has started with one of its popular tools on Windows: Microsoft PowerToys. The company has just pushed a new update to PowerToys, taking the app from version 0.93 to 0.94 and adding some new features that finally fix some of the issues you have faced while using the app. Also, like many of its previous releases, the company has teased a major new feature coming with the next version of PowerToys.
What's new in the latest PowerToys update
PowerToys version 0.94 comes with a new search box in Settings, and it works very similarly to the one in Windows 11's Settings app. Instead of scrolling through a long list of toggles, you just need to click the search box and type the initial few letters of the name of the settings, and PowerToys will show a flyout with all the matches. You just need to click the one that you're looking for.
Image: Microsoft
The latest version of PowerToys also has a new keyboard shortcut that lets you start typing directly in the search box. Sounds more convenient than reaching the search box through the mouse cursor? You can press Ctrl + F on your keyboard and start typing. This isn't a surprise announcement, however. Last month, we reported that Microsoft was working on introducing a search box in the PowerToys settings. It's good to see that Microsoft hasn't delayed the feature. In addition to the search box, PowerToys has also gained a visual feature that will help you quickly fix your keyboard shortcut conflicts. The keyboard shortcuts that are currently in use are marked in red in the latest version. Also, the Home dashboard now shows how many shortcut conflicts you currently have on PowerToys. PowerToys 0.94 also includes a bunch of improvements and bug fixes, and a new accessibility feature, which you can learn more about here.
What's coming next for PowerToys?
The next PowerToys update will be version 0.95, and it'll likely arrive next month. It's too early to predict how many new features will be added in the next release, but Microsoft has already confirmed a few exciting new features for the next release. In its official version 0.94 release note, it has announced that PowerToys will get an automatic dark mode switch based on your schedule and a revamped Keyboard Manager UI. What's more, the company previously confirmed that version 0.95 will improve PowerToys' Peek utility by allowing users to preview files by typing a command in Windows' command line tools. Hopefully, you'll see more new features and improvements than what's been officially confirmed.
Software and Services
Microsoft PowerToys
Microsoft
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
5 reasons why PC gaming feels broken in 2025
7 days ago
The most alive and immersive open-world maps ever created
Sep 9, 2025
5 operating systems I love testing in a VM, but would never install on my PC
Sep 9, 2025
The scariest 2D game I've ever played is at its lowest price on Steam, just in time for October
Today's best deals
Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
10 hours ago
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
16 hours ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
22 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
The free Obsidian plugins that simplified my productivity workflow
4 Windows tools I miss while using Ubuntu as my daily machine
4 reasons why I have started to look for NixOS alternatives
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.