Russia's Jet-Powered Drone Is Immune to Electronic Warfare: Ukraine - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Military & Defense
Ukraine says Russia's new jet-powered attack drone is full of foreign parts and immune to electronic warfare
By
Jake Epstein
Russia has used one-way attack drones to pound Ukrainian cities.
Scott Peterson/Getty Images
2025-09-16T13:47:32Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Ukraine's military has published new information about Russia's jet-powered Geran-3 attack drone.
It reports that the drones are full of foreign-made parts and appear to be immune to electronic warfare.
The Geran-3, modeled after an Iranian drone, is faster than its predecessor.
Russia's new jet-powered attack drones are full of foreign parts and built with jamming-resistant technology to shield them from electronic warfare, the Ukrainian military said Tuesday.
Ukraine's military intelligence agency, known as the HUR, published new details about the Geran-3, a Russian drone modeled after the Iranian-made Shahed-238, including what's inside the deadly weapon.The Geran-3 first appeared in Ukraine earlier this year, and the drone has since become a common element of Russian attacks. It's a faster, more advanced iteration of the Geran-2, Russia's domestically produced version of the Iranian Shahed-136.
Unlike the Geran-2, which is propeller-driven, the Geran-3 has a turbojet engine that allows the drone to move at speeds of up to 370 kilometers per hour (230 miles per hour) with a range of 1,000 kilometers (620 miles). The weapon is packed with explosives and detonates on impact after diving toward its target.The Geran-3 usually reaches maximum speed in areas covered by Ukrainian air defenses and during the terminal phase of its flight, the HUR wrote in a statement shared to the Telegram messaging app.The HUR said the Geran-3's internal layout and electronic units are similar to those of the Geran-2 variant, and available data suggests this new jet-powered drone is equipped with the same camera and video transmission system as its predecessor.
A Russian Shahed-style drone during an attack on Kyiv.
AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka
But the Geran-3 is notably outfitted with a satellite navigation system that appears resistant to the extensive electronic warfare tactics used to counter drones on both sides of the war.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Nearly 50 foreign components are inside the Geran-3, with origins in a handful of Western countries — including the US, UK, Switzerland, and Germany — and China, the HUR said. Beijing has long been accused of providing critical technology to Russia, a claim it has denied.Russia has been heavily sanctioned by the international community in the wake of its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, but while a country or company may not be involved in directly exporting its technology to Russia, it's still possible for foreign-made parts to end up there via approaches beyond their control.
The Geran-3 is one of many Russian weapons that Ukraine has said are fitted with foreign-made parts, including those built by Western manufacturers.The development of the jet-powered Geran-3 underscores Russia's growing investment in one-way attack drone capabilities. Moscow has ramped up production of its Shahed-style drones and is producing thousands of these weapons — modeled after the Iranian versions — each month.Russia is also building new launch sites for its attacks against Ukraine. It has demonstrated that it's already capable of launching hundreds of drones in mass attacks — one bombardment earlier this month involved more than 800 drones — and Western intel assessments suggest that this figure could eventually reach 2,000 in a night.
Ukraine has responded to the recent uptick in drone attacks by rushing to mass-produce a large arsenal of interceptor drones. These systems, which can chase down targets, have emerged as a low-cost air defense solution. They can reportedly intercept the Geran-3 now.
Recommended video
Ukraine
Russia
Drones
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account