Global Infrastructure -
AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
AWS Homepage›
AWS Global infrastructure
AWS Global Infrastructure
Build your applications with confidence on the most secure, reliable, and extensive global cloud infrastructure
Create account
Explore regional services
AWS Global Infrastructure
Infrastructure Solutions
AWS Digital Sovereignty
Sustainability & Community
Regional Services
AWS Global Network
Why AWS Global Infrastructure matters
AWS global infrastructure is the most secure, reliable, and extensive cloud, providing diverse infrastructure solutions for running your applications anywhere. With three Availability Zones (AZs) per Region and optimized data centers, AWS global infrastructure maximizes resilience, performance, and innovation. Using 6+ million kilometers of fiber optic cabling, AWS’s global network backbone enables faster data transfer, reduced latency, and enhanced application performance.
Learn how AWS Global Infrastructure supports your applications
Play
AWS Global Infrastructure
The AWS Cloud spans 120 Availability Zones within 38 Geographic Regions, with announced plans for 10 more Availability Zones and 3 more AWS Regions in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Chile, and the AWS European Sovereign Cloud.
North America
South America
Europe
Middle East
Africa
Asia Pacific
Australia and New Zealand
AWS Coverage Regions
North America
Geographic Regions
9
AWS GovCloud (US-East)
AWS GovCloud (US-West)
Canada (Central)
Canada West (Calgary)
Mexico (Central)
US West (Northern California)
US East (Northern Virginia)
US East (Ohio)
US West (Oregon)
Available
Coming soon
Edge Locations
31
The AWS Cloud in North America has 31 Availability Zones within 9 Geographic Regions, with 31 Edge Network Locations and 3 Edge Cache Locations.
Ashburn, VA
Atlanta GA
Boston, MA
Chicago, IL
Columbus, OH
Dallas/Fort Worth, TX
Denver, CO
Hayward, CA
Houston, TX
Jacksonville, FL
Kansas City, MO
Los Angeles, CA
Miami, FL
Minneapolis, MN
Montreal, QC
Nashville, TN
New York, NY
Newark, NJ
Palo Alto, CA
Phoenix, AZ
Philadelphia, PA
Portland, OR
Queretaro, MX
Salt Lake City, UT
San Jose, CA
Seattle, WA
South Bend, IN
St. Louis, MO
Tampa Bay, FL
Toronto, ON
Washington D.C.
The most extensive global cloud infrastructure
38
launched Regions each with multiple Availability Zones
120
Availability Zones
700+
CloudFront POPs and 13 Regional edge caches
43
Local Zones & 31 Wavelength Zones for ultra-low latency applications
What's new in AWS Global Infrastructure
What's New
Amazon investing AU$20 billion to expand data center infrastructure in Australia
Read more
What's New
AWS launches a new region in Taiwan
Read more
What's New
AWS announces a new region in Chile
Read more
What's New
AWS launches a new region in Mexico
Read more
What's New
AWS launches a new region in Thailand
Read more
Benefits of the AWS Global Infrastructure
Most secure and reliable infrastructure
AWS is architected to be the most secure global cloud infrastructure so that you can build and run your applications with confidence. With each AWS Region consisting of at least three independent, physically separate Availability Zones (AZs), AWS delivers the highest availability and reliability for your applications.
Largest and most extensive global footprint
AWS provides unmatched scalability with more combined Regions, Availability Zones, and Points of Presence than any other cloud provider. With more than 6 million kilometers of terrestrial and subsea fiber optic cabling, AWS’s global network provides faster data transfers, lower latency, and increased performance for all your applications.
Wide range of infrastructure offerings
AWS provides a wide range of infrastructure offerings that deliver consistent cloud experience for your applications in the cloud, on-premises, or at the edge. With Regions, Local Zones, Dedicated Local Zones, CloudFront, Outposts, and Wavelength, you’re empowered to run your workloads wherever you want.
Optimized for performance and innovation
AWS infrastructure is designed to deliver high performance and efficiency. AWS has innovated to maximize how power is used in data centers by optimizing how racks are positioned, using generative AI powered software that predicts the most efficient way to reduce the amount of unused or underutilized power.
Read what industry analysts are saying about AWS Global Infrastructure
Gartner | 2025 Magic Quadrant for Strategic Cloud Platform Services
IDC | 2025 MarketScape for Public Cloud Infrastructure as a Service
AWS a Leader in 2025 Magic Quadrant for SCPS
Customers are increasingly choosing AWS to host their cloud-based infrastructure and realize increased performance, security, reliability, and scale wherever they go. Amazon Web Services (AWS) was named a Leader in the 2025 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Strategic Cloud Platform Services (SCPS) report for the 15th consecutive year.
Read the full Gartner report here
AWS Named a Leader in 2025 IDC MarketScape for Public Cloud Infrastructure as a Service
As organizations accelerate their cloud adoption and AI initiatives, choosing the right cloud infrastructure provider is crucial for business success. The IDC MarketScape for Worldwide Public Cloud Infrastructure as a Service 2025 provides essential insights for technology decision-makers evaluating cloud providers. Learn how AWS's AI-ready infrastructure and global reach are shaping the future of cloud computing.
Read the full report here
Infrastructure Solutions
AWS solutions
AWS Local Zones
Run applications on AWS infrastructure closer to your end users and workloads.
Read more
AWS solutions
AWS Dedicated Local Zones
Cloud infrastructure built specifically for you to help address regulatory and digital sovereignty needs.
Read more
AWS solutions
Amazon CloudFront
Securely deliver content with low latency and high transfer speeds.
Read more
AWS solutions
AWS Outposts
Run AWS infrastructure and services on premises for a truly consistent hybrid experience.
Read more
AWS solutions
AWS Wavelength
Run applications using AWS Infrastructure and services in AWS telco partners’ data centers to meet your low latency, data residency, and resiliency needs.
Read more
Getting started with AWS
Start building on AWS today
Learn more
Learn the skills needed for a successful cloud journey
Learn more
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.