The Finance Jobs Most Impacted by Trump's H-1B Visa Change - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Finance
Trump's $100,000 visa fee threatens Wall Street's pipeline of junior bankers and tech talent
By
Alex Nicoll
,
Reed Alexander
, and
Bradley Saacks
Wall Street workers
BI/Momo Takahashi
2025-09-25T09:00:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Wall Street is bracing for the impact of President Trump's H-1B application fee.
The $100,000 price tag could upend hiring for technologists and junior bankers.
Experts broke down which finance jobs are most at risk and why.
President Donald Trump's new H-1B visa policy may hit Big Tech the hardest, but Wall Street is well within the blast zone.
Big banks like JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs, and Citi have long used these work visas to hire a range of highly skilled overseas workers, from junior bankers to technologists and even risk managers and traders.Trump's late Friday executive order, which raised the application fee to $100,000 each, is expected to upend this hiring process in a way that could make it a lot harder for international students to get a leg up in finance — and potentially lead more financial firms to outsource their technology needs, experts said.
"If the $100,000 fee is indeed implemented, I would expect demand for H-1Bs would shrink to just the most highly compensated, hardest-to-fill roles," said Ted Chiappari, head of Duane Morris' immigration law group.Chiappari pointed to junior-level bankers, like analysts, who he said are common recipients of financial industry H-1B visas. Computer-related jobs are also a big source of the finance industry's H-1B hiring, making up about two-thirds of applications last year, according to a recent report from JPMorgan. The firm predicted the policy change could result in 5,500 fewer work authorizations being granted every month."If I were a hiring manager and the choice was between candidate A and candidate B, and let's say I liked candidate A a little bit better but he had a $100,000 price tag on him — I'd have to like him a lot better," said Meridith Dennes, founder of Prospect Rock Partners, a Wall Street recruiting firm.
A career-altering feeFor young people, the new visa fee could alter their entire career path. Breaking into finance — whether in hedge funds or investment banking — is a complex process that often begins in college, if not earlier.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
If the new H-1B fee prompts some banks to avoid hiring international students to fill their entry-level ranks, US universities may see fewer students from other countries pursuing this track or attending at all."I think it's going to make it that much less attractive to come to the United States," Chiappari said.
Junior bankers earning roughly $185,000 or so, including bonuses, might not justify the $100,000 visa sponsorship expense."The question everyone is considering is, what's the cut-off point? A million-dollar VP?" said an associate at a large private equity firm.This person said that an associate earning under $400,000 might not warrant the added expense, but higher-level employees with bigger salaries and revenue-generating potential could.
Dennes said she would be "really freaked out" if she were an international student."One of the reasons why you study in the United States is to secure a job in the United States," she said, adding, "Now nobody wants to hire you because you have a $100,000 price tag on your head."'Offshore and outsource'The visa application fee is expected to drive more hiring of American tech talent— but only to a point, Dennes said. Many US financial firms like Goldman Sachs have established software and tech hubs in countries like India, which could see more hiring to make up for workers who would have previously come to the US on H-1 B visas.
"If it gets too hard to do business in the US," Chiappari said, "they'll just offshore and outsource."Not all tech jobs will be so easily expendable. Some tech jobs can be expensive and hard to fill, which has led some financial firms to offer generous pay packages to compete with tech firms and the rest of the economy.The industry's higher salaries could play to its advantage in the H-1B lottery, said Bo Cooper, a partner at immigration-focused law firm Fragomen, who noted that certain industries, companies, or roles could be exempted from the $100,000 fee at the president's discretion.
On Tuesday, the administration proposed a change to the H-1B lottery that "would give boosted chances in the lottery to those H-1B candidates who would receive the highest wages," Cooper said.While the real impact for Wall Street may not be entirely visible until bonus season rolls around, in some cases, it's already happening. An executive at a small multistrategy hedge fund told Business Insider that his firm has decided against hiring a portfolio manager from a foreign country because of the fee.The executive said firms with deep pockets are more likely to eat the added cost of the fee, saying, "This is a rounding error in their recruiting expenses."
Recommended video
Finance
Economy
Government
More
Careers
Wall Street
Hedge Funds
Trump
Private Equity
Jobs
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account