Windows 10 goes out with a whimper as its final non-security update clears up a few loose ends
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Windows 10 goes out with a whimper as its final non-security update clears up a few loose ends
By
Simon Batt
Published 1 hour ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Windows 10 general support ends on October 14; extended security-only updates are available.
Final non-security Windows 10 patch fixes only a few bugs (SMBv1, Autopilot ESP).
After October 14, only security updates will be released; no additional features or critical bug fixes will be included.
Windows 10 will lose general support on October 14th, but that doesn't mean it will never see updates ever again. If you're signed up for the extended security program (or if you're in Europe), you can get another year of security-only updates. This is great for keeping Windows 10 usable in the modern era, but it does mean the operating system will get no more security-critical bug fixes or new features. The second-to-last update for Windows 10 introduced a few notable quality-of-life features, and it was good to see Microsoft give the operating system a fitting send-off. Unfortunately, it seems the final non-security patch won't be as grand, as it contains just a handful of bug fixes.
Windows 10's final non-security update isn't too exciting
Over on Microsoft support, the tech giant details what's next on the docket of Windows 10 updates. Right now, the next patch is in the Preview channel, which means it's still being tested. By the time it makes it over to the Release branch, there will likely be no more opportunities to push an update through the process before the October 14th cut-off date arrives, unless it's something really urgent. So, what does the update bring? Well, feast your eyes on this:
[SMBv1 protocol connectivity (known issue)] Fixed: An issue where you might not be able to connect to shared files and folders if you're using the Server Message Block (SMB) v1 protocol on NetBIOS over TCP/IP NetBIOS (NetBT). This can happen after installing update KB5065429.
[Autopilot Enrollment Status Page (ESP) (known issue)] Fixed: An issue when using Windows Autopilot to deploy Windows 10, version 22H2 to devices with the Enrollment Status Page (ESP) configured might find that the ESP doesn't load during the Out-of-Box Experience (OOBE).
Pretty exciting, right? Yeah, not really. It's nice that Microsoft managed to tie up these loose ends before the deadline, but as far as bringing a legendary OS to rest, it's not exactly a strong farewell. And once the update arrives, we'll receive no more updates like it; it'll be security updates from then on out. If you're not feeling like sticking around with Windows 10 after October, I don't blame you. It'll be depressing using an operating system that only receives security-related updates until it falls out of support entirely. Fortunately, there are plenty of operating systems you can swap to if you want new features and stuff to look forward to.
Windows
Windows 10
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
4 ways I use Perplexity that have nothing to do with research
21 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
3 hours ago
One week in, these mods are making Dying Light: The Beast so much better
2 hours ago
How to avoid cheap PCIe risers that cause data corruption and instability
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
4 hours ago
I replaced all my bash scripts with Python, and here’s what happened
12 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
You can stay on Windows 10 for another year for completely free, if you meet this condition
I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
4 tiny single-board computers that outclass the Raspberry Pi
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.