The 55 Best Shows on Disney+ Right Now (September 2025) | WIREDSkip to main contentMenuSECURITYPOLITICSTHE BIG STORYBUSINESSSCIENCECULTUREREVIEWSMenuAccountAccountNewslettersSecurityPoliticsThe Big StoryBusinessScienceCultureReviewsChevronMoreExpandThe Big InterviewMagazineThe New Era of Business TravelEventsWIRED InsiderWIRED ConsultingNewslettersPodcastsVideoMerchSearchSearchSign InSign InJennifer M. Wood WIRED StaffCultureSep 9, 2025 3:00 PMThe 55 Best Shows on Disney+ Right NowLimitless, Ironheart, and Hurricane Katrina: Race Against Time are just a few of the shows you should be watching on Disney+ this month.Still from Limitless.Courtesy of Craig Parry; Disney+CommentLoaderSave StorySave this storyCommentLoaderSave StorySave this storyDisney+, if you didn’t know, isn’t just for kids. With its ownership of the Lucasfilm brand and the Marvel titles, the streaming service offers plenty of grown-up content in its bid to compete with Netflix and Amazon—and we’re not just talking movies. Since launching the service, Disney has used the name recognition of Star Wars and Marvel to launch scores of TV shows, from The Mandalorian to Loki. In the list below, we’ve collected the ones we think are the best to watch, from those franchises and beyond.Also: Because Disney+ merged its content with Hulu in 2024, most of the same shows you might like on Hulu (see our list of picks here) are also available to stream on Disney+.Want more? Head to our best movies on Disney+ list if you’re looking for movies, and our guides on the best shows on Netflix and best shows on Apple TV+ to see what Disney’s rivals have to offer. Don’t like our picks, or want to suggest your own? Head to the comments below and share your thoughts.If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more.LimitlessLongevity is having a moment, and even onscreen gods like Chris Hemsworth are feeling the pressure to do whatever they can to live the longest, healthiest life possible. In this National Geographic series, which—oddly enough—was cocreated by Darren Aronofsky, the Thor star works with a range of scientists, doctors, and adventurers to push his body to the limit in order to discover its full potential. That he faces it all with his trademark sense of humor, and against the backdrop of some truly breathtaking locations around the world, makes it all the more entertaining and inspiring.Watch on Disney+Hurricane Katrina: Race Against Time“In order to prevent something, you’ve got to understand why it happened in the first place.” That’s the lesson one New Orleans resident learned from surviving Hurricane Katrina, which devastated the city 20 years ago. In this fascinating Nat Geo documentary, people who survived the storm—plus scientists and authorities who worked to save the lives of those who were at the center of it—recount the destruction the storm brought with it. It laments the lack of government response to an American city in need while paying tribute to the heroic actions of everyday people who came together to save New Orleans and the resilience of the people who still call the city home today.Watch on Disney+Eyes of WakandaDisney is betting big on the Black Panther universe. Just one month after the premiere of the live-action series Ironheart (see below) came this new animated anthology series that delves even further into the Wakanda mythology. Two-time Oscar nominee Ryan Coogler—the man behind both Black Panther movies—developed this four-episode prequel in which the Hatut Zaraze, aka Wakanda’s “War Dogs,” embark on adventure-filled missions to retrieve long-lost Vibranium artifacts.Watch on Disney+IronheartRyan Coogler is responsible for what is arguably the best movie in the MCU (2018’s Black Panther), and now he’s executive producing one of its most interesting small-screen endeavors. Playwright Chinaka Hodge created this series, which picks up right after the events featured in 2022’s Black Panther: Wakanda Forever. It stars Dominique Thorne, who reprises her role as Riri Williams, aka Ironheart, a brilliant MIT student who has successfully managed to create a Tony Stark–like suit of armor. It gives her the kind of invincibility that changes her outlook on the world—and leads her down a pothole-filled path that could see her heroic character go the way of the antihero in a way that critics have described as being similar to The Sopranos’ Tony Soprano and Breaking Bad’s Walter White.Watch on Disney+Doctor WhoSpring 2024 marked the beginning of a new era for Doctor Who fans when Ncuti Gatwa was officially handed the sonic screwdriver to take the legendary sci-fi series in new directions as the Fifteenth Doctor. He did it all over again with a second season, which aired a game-changing finale on May 31 that has viewers wondering where the Doctor will be headed next. Russell T. Davies is also back to oversee all the time-traveling shenanigans as the latest incarnation of the Time Lord journeys through space and time with companion Ruby Sunday (Millie Gibson), and new addition Belinda Chandra (Varada Sethu). While the series will keep its standing as a BBC staple in the UK and Ireland, American audiences will need to head to Disney+ to experience it all.Watch on Disney+Star Wars: Tales of the UnderworldThere are two types of people in this world: those who think there are more Star Wars movies and TV shows that one person needs and those who are counting down the days until The Mandalorian & Grogu arrives in theaters next year. If you’re part of that latter group, you’re in good company—and have plenty of series to choose from, including this six-part anthology that follows 2022’s Tales of the Jedi and last year’s Tales of the Empire (see below). In true Star Wars style, it tells the story of two villains, former assassin/bounty hunter Asajj Ventress and outlaw Cad Bane, who form an unlikely alliance in an attempt to build new lives for themselves, until Bane catches up with an old colleague, who has switched sides to become a law-abiding marshal. Dark versus light battle it out once more.Watch on Disney+AndorAndor, which just scored 14 Emmy nominations, including one for Outstanding Drama Series, is something of a miracle. Created by Tony Gilroy, the two-time Oscar nominee behind Michael Clayton and a writer on the Bourne movies, it’s the origin story of one of Rogue One's most beloved characters, Cassian Andor (Diego Luna). Set in the early years of the Rebellion, it charts Andor’s path to becoming one of the most integral of the Rebels. With a supporting cast that includes Fiona Shaw and Stellan Skarsgård, it features a fantastic score from Nicholas Britell (Moonlight, Succession). After spending so much time with Mandalorians and Jedis, it’s a welcome reprieve and perhaps the closest thing to prestige TV the Star Wars universe has released.Watch on Disney+Oklahoma City Bombing: One Day in AmericaThirty years after the Oklahoma City Bombing, Nat Geo takes a look back at the deadliest act of domestic terrorism in US history. The three-part docuseries features rarely seen archival footage and interviews with survivors who are sharing their harrowing stories for the first time. While it’s undoubtedly a tragic story, the series also recounts the inspiring way in which it united Americans.Watch on Disney+Daredevil: Born AgainDaredevil fans were devastated when the original Netflix series was canceled in 2018, but Charlie Cox never strayed far from his title role for too long. He popped up as Matt Murdock/Daredevil in MCU movies (Spider-Man: No Way Home) and TV shows (She-Hulk: Attorney at Law, Echo, Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man), all the while biding his time until his eponymous series came back. Seven years and one massive overhaul later, fans seem to think it was worth the wait. Born Again sees Cox facing off against crime lord turned mayoral candidate Wilson Fisk (Vincent D'Onofrio) once more. There’s also a darkness to the series that seems to borrow a page from Christopher Nolan’s Dark Knight playbook, though it’s not as elegant in its execution. Still, it’s a solid crime drama that sets itself apart from many other MCU series thanks to its more mature tone. Whether you were into the Netflix series or not, it might be time to dig in.Watch on Disney+Win or LoseWill Forte, Rhea Seehorn, Ian Chen, Melissa Villaseñor, and Izaac Wang are among the dozens of actors and comedians who lend their voices to Pixar’s very first original animated series. Over the course of eight episodes, this charming series plays out the same events that occur in the week leading up to a middle school softball team’s championship game from the perspective of various characters, including a wise bead of sweat known as Sweaty (and voiced by comedian Jo Firestone). If the title sounds familiar to you, it might be because the series created some controversy back in December when it was revealed that a transgender character’s storyline had been cut from the series. Disney’s reasoning? “When it comes to animated content for a younger audience, we recognize that many parents would prefer to discuss certain subjects with their children on their own terms and timeline.”Watch on Disney+Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-ManFour years after it was first announced, Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man arrived early this year. The animated series dares to imagine what kind of chaos might have ensued if Peter Parker (Hudson Thames) had been mentored by baddie Norman Osborn/Green Goblin (Colman Domingo) instead of Tony Stark/Iron Man. Oh, the horror (and fun)! A second season has already been confirmed, though likely won’t premiere until 2026.Watch on Disney+Goosebumps: The VanishingFor more than 30 years, R. L. Stine’s Goosebumps books have fed the nightmares of young readers—much to their delight (well, usually). Now Disney is inspiring a whole new generation of horror lovers with this fun series, which follows the lives of a group of high schoolers who begin to unravel the terrifying truth about a decades-old murder—and the roles their nearest and dearest might have played in it—in their otherwise picture-perfect hometown. The always-affable Justin Long starred as a teacher who may or may not be possessed in season 1 of this anthology series. Its second, and final, season brought an extended title (Goosebumps: The Vanishing), a new cast (including Friends star David Schwimmer), and a whole new set of nightmares.Watch on Disney+Star Wars: Skeleton CrewDo you love Star Wars but wish it had more Warriors/The Wizard of Oz/The Brave Little Toaster energy? Lucasfilm has heard your cries and is here to oblige. For Skeleton Crew, they assembled a gang of four youths who get lost in the Star Wars universe and try to find their way home with the help of Jude Law, who plays an “enigmatic scoundrel" named Jod. OK, so Star Wars probably already has enough of those, but who cares? The real treasure is the friends you'll make along the way.Watch on Disney+Lego Star Wars: Rebuild the GalaxySig Greebling (Stranger Things’ Gaten Matarazzo) discovers an ancient relic that alters the history of the universe—turning Jar Jar Binks into a lightsaber-wielding Sith and Luke Skywalker into Just Some Guy. With the help of a wise old Jedi, Sig must do what he can to piece things back together. Sure, the plotline has all the makings of a typical Star Wars story, but with Mark Hamill and Ahmed Best lending their voices to the minifig versions of the characters that made them famous, it also does so in a way that pokes just the right amount of fun at the canon.Watch on Disney+Agatha All AlongAfter Kathryn Hahn became the (not-so-surprising) breakout star of 2021’s WandaVision miniseries (more on that below), MCU fans were thrilled—but, again, not surprised—when she nabbed her own series with Agatha All Along. The long-awaited spinoff takes place three years after the events of WandaVision, with witch Agatha (now stripped of all her magical powers) enlisting a teenager (Joe Locke) and a new coven to help her regain her status as HWIC. Aubrey Plaza, Patti LuPone, Sasheer Zamata, and Debra Jo Rupp round out the stellar cast.Watch on Disney+BlueyYes, Bluey is technically a children’s show. But everyone is welcome to enjoy this animated series from Australia, which centers around an endlessly curious blue heeler pup named Bluey and her family (mom, dad, and little sister). The show’s brevity—each episode clocks in at around eight minutes, and there are also mini episodes that are half that run time—is part of what makes it such a fun and easy watch. But the exploration of everyday feelings and emotions that everyone can relate to (humans, too) have made it a bona fide cultural phenomenon. Rose Byrne, Natalie Portman, and Eva Mendes are among the stars who have lent their voices to the show.Watch on Disney+Arctic Ascent With Alex HonnoldIn Free Solo (which is also streaming on Disney+), climber Alex Honnold dared to do the unthinkable, becoming the first person to free solo climb the 3,000-foot rock wall of Yosemite’s El Capitan. For most people, that dauntless endeavor would have been enough adventure for one lifetime. But Alex Honnold is not most people, as this three-part National Geographic docuseries makes clear. Here, he travels to Greenland with fellow climbers to conquer more unclimbed spaces in one of the most remote corners of the world. Vicarious anxiety never felt so exciting.Watch on Disney+Star Wars: Young Jedi AdventuresIf helping to raise a new generation of Star Wars geeks was even a small part of your reason for having kids, this animated series, which is basically the Star Wars version of Muppet Babies, is a great place to start their education. Set during the High Republic era, approximately 200 years before the events of The Phantom Menace, it follows a group of young Jedis—Jedi Lites—who are sometimes stumbling their way through learning the ways of the Force. Like any good kid series, it also teaches important lessons about life and making a positive difference in the world.Watch on Disney+The AcolyteA Jedi turning to the Dark Side is a concept as old as the Star Wars franchise itself, and not something fans have given much thought to in terms of the “why.” But this Disney+ series dares to ask that question, and plays out a bit like a true crime procedural in a sci-fi landscape. Carrie-Anne Moss stars as a Jedi Master, and if her character seems a bit like Trinity from The Matrix series, that’s by design. Series creator Leslye Headland told Empire that the character owes much of its inspiration to the Wachowskis’ movies and that Moss’ Indara is basically “Trinity with a lightsaber.” In August, Disney announced that one season is all we’re going to get of The Acolyte, so savor all eight episodes.Watch on Disney+Star Wars: Tales of the EmpireIt’s been more than five years since Disney released the last Star Wars movie, and The Mandalorian & Grogu won't arrive until May 22, 2026. Fortunately, Disney+ has plenty of TV series to fill the void, including this animated anthology that adds new stories about the franchise’s Galactic empire, in the same time period in which the original trilogy existed. It follows the very different journeys of two characters: Morgan Elsbeth (Diana Lee Inosanto), a Force-sensitive human and member of the Nightsister coven who, after being one of the few of her people to survive the Clone Wars, is seeking revenge. Meanwhile, Barriss Offee (Meredith Salenger) is a former Jedi who is questioning her own disillusionment with the order and what her road ahead looks like. Both are forced to make decisions that will change their individual destinies, and the galaxy far, far away with it.Watch on Disney+X-Men '97Of all the big-budget X-Men movies and TV shows that have existed over the years, it’s hard to believe that a cartoon series from the ’90s is one of the most beloved entries. But it’s true—and has a near-perfect Rotten Tomatoes score to prove it. When the revival arrived in 2024, many of the original voice actors returned to reclaim their characters, who must learn how to navigate a world without Professor Xavier to guide them. The events of this series pick up just one year after the point where the original show (which you can read more about below) ended.Watch on Disney+Renegade NellLouisa Harland shines as Nell Jackson, the renegade of the title, who accidentally becomes one of the most feared highwaywomen in 18th-century England after she is framed for murder. Of course, this being a Disney series, it’s best to expect something a little magical—which in Nell’s case is Billy Blind, a magical sprite sent to help her realize her true destiny. What is surprising is that the series, which is perfectly suited to teens and their families, was created by Sally Wainwright, the brilliant mind behind such adult-themed series as Happy Valley and Gentleman Jack.Watch on Disney+DinosaursNineties kids no doubt remember this sitcom about a family of dinosaurs. Earl Sinclair is a fortysomething megalosaurus living with his family in Pangaea circa 60,000,000 BC. While his days are spent working as a tree pusher (yep, he pushes over trees), he lives for his family: wife Fran and kids Robbie, Charlene, and Baby Sinclair, whose running gag of hitting his dad over the head with a frying pan and shouting “Gotta love me!” never gets old. Not even three decades on.Watch on Disney+EchoThis Marvel series continues the studio’s recent trend of shining a spotlight on its fearless—and complicated—female characters. In this case, that character is Maya Lopez (Alaqua Cox), aka Echo, who is best known to audiences as a baddie from Hawkeye. But over the course of its relatively short five episodes, we learn why Maya—one of the MCU’s few deaf characters—must reconcile the events of her past and reconnect with her Native American roots in order to confront the future she has created for herself. Cox may be a relative newcomer to Hollywood, but she deftly manages to shoulder the weight of an entire MCU series.Watch on Disney+Percy Jackson and the OlympiansNearly 20 years after the release of the first book in Rick Riordan’s Percy Jackson series, this small-screen adaptation of that first title is being praised for how faithful it has remained to Riordan’s beloved words. Being a tween is hard enough, but for 12-year-old Perseus “Percy” Jackson (Walker Scobell) it gets even harder when he learns he's the son of Poseidon, god of the sea, and that he has pissed off his uncle, Zeus, who believes that Percy has stolen his thunderbolt. (And you thought having a zit was bad!) Fortunately for Percy there is Camp Half-Blood—a place where demigods like himself can learn to harness their powers and use them for good. It’s there that Percy learns the whole “with great power comes great responsibility” thing and embraces it—even if he'd rather be playing video games with his friends. A second season is set to arrive in December, with Season 3 already in the works.Watch on Disney+Behind the AttractionDisneyland, Walt Disney’s very first theme park, opened in Anaheim, California, in 1955. In the 70 years since, Disney parks have become a worldwide phenomenon and inspired rabid fan bases who make annual (if not more frequent) pilgrimages to these so-called Happiest Places on Earth. But what goes on behind the scenes? From the creation of major attractions like the Haunted Mansion and Pirates of the Caribbean to its bustling food scene (Dole Whip, anyone?), this docuseries goes behind the scenes of the world’s most famous amusement parks.Watch on Disney+LokiThe MCU is exhaustingly huge. Yet while Loki is undoubtedly part of that universe, the series could just as easily work as a stand-alone piece, and it's all the more fun and surprising as a result. There are enough plot twists, silly one-liners, and time-travel antics to keep everyone entertained, and even a wisecracking alligator. If that doesn’t do it, Loki has a visual effects budget that would put most Hollywood blockbusters to shame. Sure, it’s not the most intellectually stimulating show out there, but Tom Hiddleston does a great job of turning Loki into a fairly complex, interesting character. No word yet on whether there might be a third season in Loki’s future—and even Hiddleston is in the dark. “I truly don’t know,” he admitted to Variety in 2024, adding: “There have been other times when I thought that it was the end and I have been mistaken. But if this is the end, I'm so proud of where we ended up.”Watch on Disney+DaredevilBefore Disney+ became the home for all of Marvel’s TV content, Netflix was the place to find it—beginning with Daredevil, in which blind attorney Matt Murdock (Charlie Cox) spends his days seeking justice and his nights looking for revenge as a masked vigilante attempting to rid his Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood of its criminal element. While the series ended in 2018, Cox has reprised his role for a new series, Daredevil: Born Again, which arrived in early March (see above).Watch on Disney+AhsokaWe know what you’re thinking: Wait, another Star Wars series? And we don’t blame you for asking the question. But for old-school franchise fans, Ahsoka just might surprise you. Rosario Dawson reprises the title role as Ahsoka Tano, a former Jedi who studied under Anakin Skywalker, which she first played in season 2 of The Mandalorian. Here, Ahsoka sets off on a journey to locate Grand Admiral Thrawn (Lars Mikkelsen, Mads’ brother)—a master manipulator who seems to be on a mission to become the grand ruler of the galaxy. A second season is scheduled to begin production in April, and will welcome Hayden Christensen’s Anakin Skywalker back into the Star Wars fold.Watch on Disney+The Wonder YearsIn 2021, writer-producer Saladin K. Patterson (Frasier, The Bernie Mac Show) rebooted the award-winning, and much beloved, series The Wonder Years for a new generation. Don Cheadle narrates the adventures of Dean Williams (Elisha “EJ” Williams), as he comes of age in Montgomery, Alabama, in the final years of the Civil Rights Movement. Both seasons of the worthwhile series are now streaming—as are all six seasons of the original series, which premiered in 1988.Watch on Disney+Kizazi Moto: Generation FireWhile Black Panther may have gotten an official sequel with 2022’s Wakanda Forever (which is, of course, available to stream on Disney+), this animated anthology series is in many ways a spiritual successor to that Oscar-winning MCU flick. More than a dozen up-and-coming African storytellers were handpicked to write and/or direct these 10 short films, which build on the makers’ cultures and histories to paint a fascinating, gorgeously animated—and often dystopian—picture of Afrofuturism.Watch on Disney+American Born ChineseOscar winners—and Everything Everywhere All at Once costars—Michelle Yeoh and Ke Huy Quan reunite for this Disney+ original series. Jin Wang (Ben Wang) is your typical teenager who’s just trying to get through the day of dealing with high school social hierarchies. But his life is forever altered when he’s asked to serve as a mentor to Wei-Chen (Jimmy Liu), a foreign exchange student who is hiding some pretty big secrets. Like that he’s actually on an otherworldly mission from the heavenly realm and has chosen Jin to serve as his guide. Part coming-of-age tale and part mythological fantasy, the single-season series is a formidable adaptation of Gene Yang’s graphic novel.Watch on Disney+Star Wars: VisionsFor a franchise as varied and diverse as Star Wars, sometimes its output can feel a little same-y. That’s not the case with Visions. The point of the anthology series is to provide “all-new, creative” takes on the Star Wars universe. The first series, which premiered in 2021, featured nine installments from some of the best anime studios in Japan, including Kamikaze Douga and Trigger. The second anthology, which arrived in 2023, broadens the scope further, incorporating work from studios in India, Ireland, Spain, Chile, France, South Africa, the US, and the UK. If you’re looking for the best one-off tales from the Star Wars universe, look no further.Watch on Disney+The MandalorianThe Mandalorian was, and is, exactly what the Star Wars franchise needed. Everything about this Jon Favreau series feels like classic TV—from the episodic adventures to the cameos. Set in the outer reaches of the galaxy, it follows a moody, masked Mandalorian bounty hunter (WIRED cover star Pedro Pascal) and really delivers on the hype with its retro-futuristic robots, salty Space Western vibes, lack of Skywalker baggage, and, of course, Grogu (aka Baby Yoda). The Mandalorian really set the tone for what a great Star Wars series could be, and while not every subsequent show has been as good, others, like Andor, have lived up to the precedent it set—and proved Star Wars stories can make for great TV. There's still no official word on a fourth season, but there is one more exciting adventure on the horizon: a movie, The Mandalorian & Grogu, which just got a May 22, 2026 release date.Watch on Disney+Ms. MarvelWith Ms. Marvel, Disney manages to combine its knack for producing coming-of-age tween fare with its new role as caretaker of the MCU. Iman Vellani charms as Kamala Khan, an Avengers-obsessed high schooler from Jersey City who feels like an outsider in most areas of her life. But when a gold bangle arrives from her grandmother in Pakistan, Kamala begins to realize that all the time she's spent fantasizing about what life would be like with superpowers might have been preparing her for real life. With one foot in the teen drama world and the other in the comic book universe, Ms. Marvel—which just happens to feature Marvel’s first Muslim superhero—marks yet another admirable step forward for the company in both innovation and inclusion. In 2023, Vellani’s Ms. Marvel made the leap to the big screen to star alongside Brie Larson in The Marvels.Watch on Disney+Obi-Wan KenobiEwan McGregor has not always had the kindest words for the Star Wars prequels in which he first played the role of Obi-Wan Kenobi—a role he inherited from Alec Guinness, who also had plenty of less-than-favorable things to say about the franchise. So it was somewhat surprising when Lucasfilm announced that McGregor would be donning his Jedi gear again to star in a stand-alone Star Wars series for Disney+. (Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy has already said there will not be a second season.) In many ways, however, it allowed McGregor and former costar Hayden Christensen to course-correct some of their earlier work, as it follows a downtrodden Obi-Wan attempting to process his personal and professional disappointment over losing Anakin Skywalker (Christensen) to the Dark Side.Watch on Disney+The Beatles: Get BackIn January 1969, just more than a year before they announced they were breaking up, the Beatles allowed a film crew unprecedented access to the creative process and recording of Let It Be, which would be their final studio album. Fifty years later, Oscar-winning director Peter Jackson was presented with the nearly 60 hours of film footage and more than 150 hours of audio that resulted from this project, and he remastered it and turned it into a three-part docuseries. Whether you’re already a Beatles fan or not, the documentary is a fascinating look at the creative process of one of the music world’s most influential bands as they work against the clock to finish recording an album, decide to have a free concert on their label’s rooftop, and occasionally butt heads. Knowing what the subjects do not know—that this will be the last time they perform live together or record an album—only adds to the project’s intimacy. The miniseries won all five Emmys it was nominated for in 2022, including Outstanding Documentary or Nonfiction Series.Watch on Disney+Moon KnightOscar Isaac brings yet another marquee name to Marvel’s growing roster of all-star talents with Moon Night. Here, Isaac plays a man with dissociative identity disorder, giving us not one but three distinct characters: mercenary Mark Spector, British gift shop employee Steven Grant, and the mysterious—and seemingly ominous—Jake Lockley. Ultimately, he must face off against himself to get the answers he’s seeking. For Moon Knight, Isaac told Empire that he was thrilled to be able to do something “really fucking nutty on a major stage”—and he delivers.Watch on Disney+The Muppet ShowWhile The Muppet Show, which ran for five seasons between 1976 and 1981, is considered a piece of classic television today, it wasn’t always smooth sailing for creator Jim Henson. Henson produced two one-off Muppet specials that were intended to take the show into prime time, but neither came to fruition. Fortunately, the Muppets did have a recurring gig in “The Land of Gorch” sketches that aired during Saturday Night Live’s first season, as viewers of Jason Reitman's Saturday Night learned. When SNL became a hit, Henson knew that there was a potentially massive audience for an adult-oriented Muppet show (not to mention celebrity connections to entice plenty of A-list names to host). The rest is Muppet history.Watch on Disney+The PunisherThe Punisher is yet another Netflix-turned-Disney+ Marvel series that also happens to be a spinoff of Daredevil. Like Daredevil, the Punisher (real name: Frank Castle, played by Jon Bernthal) is a vigilante who seems to relish exacting revenge, regardless of the results. He and Daredevil operate within the same universe, and while the Punisher sort of admires Daredevil’s quest for true justice, Daredevil despises the Punisher’s by-any-means-necessary methods. Bernthal brings an intensity to the role that, while undoubtedly violent, also has a sense of humor about it.Watch on Disney+Boy Meets WorldIf ABC’s TGIF lineup wasn’t a part of your night as a kid, you clearly didn’t grow up in the ’90s. But Disney+ is happy to right that wrong by housing all seven seasons of the teen sitcom in its library. Corey Matthews (Ben Savage) deals with the ups and downs of growing up and ever-evolving relationships with friends and family—plus that one teacher, Mr. Feeny (William Daniels)—who always has the right answer to your problems, whether you like it or not. As the show progressed and the kids grew up, serious issues like drugs and sex were thrown into the mix, which didn’t always please the network. When the show aired on the original Disney Channel, a few episodes weren’t included in the lineup because of the more mature subject matter. You can also check out all three seasons of Girl Meets World, the series reboot (which features Corey as the parent and Mr. Feeny) when you’re done.Watch on Disney+Jessica JonesJust about six months after Daredevil arrived on the scene, Netflix took another chance on a Marvel property with Jessica Jones. In this dark dive into the world of superheroes, Krysten Ritter plays a private investigator who gave up her days as a superhero after a major catastrophe. But you can’t deny who you are, as Jessica discovers when it seems like every case that comes her way forces her to confront her past—and the supervillain Kilgrave (David Tennant), who turned her into a shell of her former self.Watch on Disney+HawkeyeYet another in an ever growing string of spinoff TV shows from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Hawkeye gives some long overdue attention to Jeremy Renner’s Clint Barton, who in many ways has often seemed like the forgotten Avenger. The supernaturally skilled archer is in most of the ensemble Avengers films, but this Disney+ series marks his first solo outing. The show sees Hawkeye teaming up with Kate Bishop (Hailee Steinfeld), a precocious twentysomething who shares his skills for slinging arrows but lacks his eye for danger. It’s set during the holidays, and there are shades of Die Hard as the eponymous character tries to save the day and make it home in time for Christmas. Let the arguments about whether it’s a Christmas TV show begin.Watch on Disney+Monsters at WorkMonsters at Work is the Monsters, Inc. spinoff you didn’t know you needed. It picks up the action six months after the end of the iconic Pixar movie—after Sully and his friend and colleague Mike (a giant green eyeball) have reworked the Monstropolis energy grid to run on laughter instead of children’s screams.Watch on Disney+The Bad BatchYes, Disney really is milking its Star Wars properties for all they’re worth. The Bad Batch is an animated spinoff series set in the aftermath of the Clone Wars, between the prequel trilogy and the original trilogy in the overarching timeline. It follows a group of clone soldiers with genetic defects that give them individual traits and personalities, making them well suited to taking on daring mercenary missions. All three seasons are available to stream.Watch on Disney+WandaVisionThis slow-burning sitcom parody is unexpectedly compelling. For the first couple of episodes, even hardened Marvel fans will have very little idea what’s going on, as Avengers Wanda Maximoff/Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) and Vision (Paul Bettany) live out an idyllic family life in black-and-white 1950s suburbia. Quickly, it becomes clear that something is wrong in the quiet town of Westview, as the world of the show ties into the wider MCU. Olsen reprises her role in Sam Raimi’s Doctor Strange sequel, Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, which picks up right after the events of WandaVision.Watch on Disney+The Falcon and the Winter SoldierAfter the surreal sitcom stylings of WandaVision, the second Marvel show to land on Disney+ covers more familiar ground. It's an action-packed thriller that follows Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan) and Sam Wilson (Anthony Mackie) as they try to fill the void left by Captain America in the months after the events of Avengers: Endgame.Watch on Disney+Star Wars RebelsAccessible for kids and adults alike—and undoubtedly one of the best Star Wars TV series on Disney+—this animated series follows a group of rebels led by the former Jedi Kanan Jarrus (Freddie Prinze Jr.) and featuring his force-sensitive Padawan, Ezra Bridger (Ezra Gray). Fan favorite Ahsoka Tano (Ashley Eckstein) is another regular character across its four seasons, which do a neat job of fleshing out the time between the end of the prequel trilogy and the beginning of the original one.Watch on Disney+The SimpsonsHave you got some time on your hands? Well, the 36 seasons of The Simpsons currently streaming on Disney+ should keep you busy. What can be said about one of the longest-running—and arguably most famous—animated TV shows ever made? While the first season is a little patchy by today’s standards, and there are ongoing arguments about when the show went from essential viewing to neglected cash cow, whatever your view, there are literally weeks worth of entertainment here.Watch on Disney+X-Men: The Animated SeriesIf you really want to nerd out, this critically acclaimed animated X-Men series from the ’90s is worth a watch. In fact, the first two films in the live-action movie franchise drew heavily from this cartoon, which serves as a nice reminder of what can be done with rich source material.Watch on Disney+Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.This seven-season series, which is for serious Marvel fans, revolves around S.H.I.E.L.D.’s less super agents, led by Agent Coulson (Clark Gregg). The first season takes a while to warm up, but it really hits its stride in its second and especially third seasons, and it eventually ramps up with a complex plot that ties into the films.Watch on Disney+Agent CarterAgent Carter is a better show than Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., but it struggled to find an audience during its two seasons. Hayley Atwell reprises her role as Peggy Carter from several MCU films in this 1940s-set series, where she doubles as an agent for the US government while helping Howard Stark (Tony’s dad) out of more than one jam. The two seasons stretch to only 18 episodes, so it’s a quick watch, but one worth making the time for.Watch on Disney+Star Wars: The Clone WarsThis is another Star Wars animated show worth seeking out, though it’s not to be confused with the equally worthy 2003 animated series Star Wars: Clone Wars from legendary Samurai Jack creator Genndy Tartakovsky. Both series deal with the period between Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith and chronicle the rise of Anakin Skywalker from arrogant Padawan to powerful Jedi Master.Watch on Disney+Inside PixarThere’s a lot of behind-the-scenes content on Disney+. These are short clips that, in another age, would have been confined to the DVD extras menu. But this series of 20-minute documentaries on different Pixar movies offers a fascinating insight into the animated hit machine.Watch on Disney+What If …?Here’s an animated series based on one simple question: What if? The Watcher, played by Jeffrey Wright, is an extraterrestrial being who observes the multiverse, occasionally making minor changes to influence events. This series looks at how events in the Marvel movies would have turned out differently if they’d had a Sliding Doors moment. The first episode follows an alternate timeline in which Steve Rogers remains a scrawny sidekick and Agent Carter becomes a Union Jack-draped super soldier. Actors from the films reprise their roles, including Josh Brolin as Thanos, Chris Hemsworth as Thor, and Karen Gillan as Nebula.Watch on Disney+CommentsBack to topTriangleYou Might Also Like …In your inbox: WIRED's most ambitious, future-defining storiesThe unexpected winners of Trump’s trade warBig Story: The end of handwritingThe dark money group secretly funding Democratic influencersSpecial Edition: Are we healthy yet?Jennifer M. Wood writes about movies, television, and pop culture. She is the editor of The Curious Viewer: A Miscellany of Bingeable Streaming TV Shows from the Past Twenty Years and the author of The Curious Movie Buff: A Miscellany of Fantastic Films from the Past 50 Years.  ... Read MoreTopicsDisneyTelevisionMarvelCulture GuidesRead MoreThe 51 Best Shows on Netflix Right NowBlack Rabbit, Wolf King, and Wednesday are just a few of the shows you need to watch on Netflix this month.The 50 Best Shows on Hulu Right NowOnly Murders in the Building, Tempest, and Alien: Earth are just a few of the shows you should be watching on Hulu this month.The 65 Best Movies on Disney+ Right NowThunderbolts*, Sacramento, and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Disney+ this month.The 39 Best Shows on Apple TV+ Right NowPlatonic, The Morning Show, and Chief of War are among the best shows on Apple TV+ this month.The 50 Best Shows on HBO Max Right NowPeacemaker, Ruby & Jodi: A Cult of Sin and Influence, and The Gilded Age are just a few of the shows you need to be watching on HBO Max this month.The 25 Best Shows on Amazon Prime Right NowBallard, Butterfly, and The Second Best Hospital in the Galaxy are just a few of the shows you should be watching on Amazon Prime Video this week.The 51 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowDevo, Little Evil, and Ziam are just a few of the movies you should watch on Netflix this month.The 44 Best Movies on Hulu This WeekSister Midnight, John Wick, and Jennifer’s Body are just a few of the movies you need to watch on Hulu right now.The 29 Best Movies on Apple TV+ Right NowHighest 2 Lowest, Echo Valley, and Snoopy Presents: A Summer Musical are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Apple TV+ this month.The 35 Best Movies on HBO Max Right NowFriendship, Final Destination Bloodlines, and Sinners are just a few of the movies you should be watching on HBO Max this month.The 23 Best Movies on Amazon Prime Right NowAmerican Fiction, Heads of State, and Air are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Amazon Prime Video this week.Cancel Culture Comes for Artists Who Posted About Charlie Kirk’s DeathA South Park episode was taken off air, a DC comic series was canceled, and several artists were fired in the aftermath of the shooting.WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.SubscribeNewslettersTravelFAQWIRED StaffWIRED EducationEditorial StandardsArchiveRSSAccessibility HelpReviewsBuying GuidesMattressesElectric BikesSoundbarsStreaming GuidesWearablesTVsCouponsGift GuidesAdvertiseContact UsManage AccountJobsPress CenterCondé Nast StoreUser AgreementPrivacy PolicyYour California Privacy Rights© 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad ChoicesSelect international siteUnited StatesLargeChevronItaliaJapónCzech Republic & SlovakiaFacebookXPinterestYouTubeInstagramTiktok