How should ‘mirror life’ research be restricted? Debate heats up
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
15 September 2025
How should ‘mirror life’ research be restricted? Debate heats up
Some researchers are calling for strict limits, while others speak out against halting basic science prematurely.
By
Mark Peplow
Mark Peplow
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Some researchers are developing biological systems that create mirror-image versions of DNA and other molecules crucial to life.Credit: Ting Zhu LabThis week in Manchester, UK, scientists will be deliberating whether to restrict research that could eventually enable ‘mirror life’ — synthetic cells built from molecules that are mirror images of those found in the natural world.Mirror-image molecules separated using workhorse of chemistryOver the past year, many scientists have voiced concerns over experiments that might lead to the creation of such cells, suggesting that they would pose an enormous risk to human health and the environment. “Pretty much everybody agrees” that mirror-image cells would be “a bad thing”, says John Glass, a synthetic biologist at the J. Craig Venter Institute in La Jolla, California.But there are disagreements about where to draw lines to limit research on mirror-image biology, given the potential benefits of such studies.Many of the molecules in our bodies are ‘chiral’ — that is, they take one of two mirror-image forms, like right-handed and left-handed gloves. Proteins are built from left-handed amino acids, and DNA twists like a right-handed screw, for example.Studying mirror-image versions of such molecules could help to unpick how this handedness emerged, some researchers say. And because the body’s enzymes and immune system might not as readily recognize right-handed amino acids or left-handed DNA, such molecules could resist degradation — making them useful as therapeutic drugs. This approach has already shown clinical success: in 2017, for example, the US Food and Drug Administration approved a small peptide containing mirror-image amino acids, called etelcalcetide, to treat people with chronic kidney disease.Rare ‘ambidextrous’ protein breaks rules of handednessBut this ability to evade degradation could be a double-edged sword. If an entire mirror-image cell were ever made, it might proliferate uncontrollably in the body or spread unchecked through the environment, some researchers say.This is why scientists are meeting in Manchester this week.Biochemist Sven Klussmann, founder and chief executive of Aptarion Biotech in Berlin, which is developing short strands of therapeutic mirror-image RNA, agrees that it’s reasonable to consider the potential risks of mirror life. “But we should not panic yet, and we should not restrict research too early,” he says.Yet Kate Adamala, a synthetic biologist at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, cautions that the risks of research that could enable mirror life would outweigh any potential benefits. “There is no benefit of mirror biology that couldn’t be achieved other ways with normal biology,” she says. “That’s not a risk I think we should be taking.”Red linesGlass says that several teams, including his own, are close to, for the first time, creating a synthetic cell from molecules with the chirality seen in nature. But nobody is currently building a mirror-image cell, and it could take decades to do so, if it’s even possible at all. Still, researchers are making progress on technologies that could underpin that work; and in 2019, before the potential risks were realized, the US National Science Foundation awarded research grants to ‘boot up’ a mirror cell. Adamala, one of the grant recipients, says her growing concerns convinced her and her colleagues to drop the work.Mirror-image enzyme copies looking-glass DNAGlass and Adamala were among 38 scientists who laid out their worries in Science in December 20241. Since then, the non-profit Mirror Biology Dialogues Fund has sponsored a series of meetings to develop recommendations to avert the threat mirror life could pose. In June, researchers who gathered in Paris called on funders not to support work on a mirror-image cell, and suggested restricting areas of research that could facilitate mirror life. In Manchester this week — and at a US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine meeting at the end of this month — researchers will pick up the conversation and deliberate over where to draw those red lines.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02902-2
ReferencesAdamala, K. P. et al. Science 386, 1351–1353 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Jiang, W. et al. Cell Discov. 3, 17037 (2017).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Fan, C., Deng, Q. & Zhu, T. F. Nature Biotechnol. 39, 1548–1555 (2021).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Xu, Y. & Zhu, T. F. Science 378, 405–412 (2022).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Zhu, T. Nature 645, 588–591 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Mirror of the unknown: should research on mirror-image molecular biology be stopped?
Mirror-image molecules separated using workhorse of chemistry
Mirror-image enzyme copies looking-glass DNA
‘Elegant’ catalysts that tell left from right scoop chemistry Nobel
Rare ‘ambidextrous’ protein breaks rules of handedness
Subjects
Scientific community
Cell biology
Chemical biology
Chemistry
Latest on:
Scientific community
How a mentoring connection boosted my ambitions for a science career
Career Column 19 SEP 25
Harvard vs Trump: millions in grant money begin trickling back to scientists
News 19 SEP 25
Tipsy bats and perfect pasta: Ig Nobels celebrate ‘improbable’ research
News 18 SEP 25
Cell biology
Covariation MS uncovers a protein that controls cysteine catabolism
Article 17 SEP 25
Structural basis for mTORC1 activation on the lysosomal membrane
Article 17 SEP 25
Amplifying antigen-induced cellular responses with proximity labelling
Article 10 SEP 25
Chemical biology
World’s first AI-designed viruses a step towards AI-generated life
News 19 SEP 25
Mirror of the unknown: should research on mirror-image molecular biology be stopped?
Comment 15 SEP 25
Amplifying antigen-induced cellular responses with proximity labelling
Article 10 SEP 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
Seeking a Postdoctoral Fellow to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which a new endolysin interacts with Gram-negative bacterial membranes.
Christchurch (Locality), Canterbury (NZ)
Biomolecular Interaction Centre, University of Canterbury
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Related Articles
Mirror of the unknown: should research on mirror-image molecular biology be stopped?
Mirror-image molecules separated using workhorse of chemistry
Mirror-image enzyme copies looking-glass DNA
‘Elegant’ catalysts that tell left from right scoop chemistry Nobel
Rare ‘ambidextrous’ protein breaks rules of handedness
Subjects
Scientific community
Cell biology
Chemical biology
Chemistry
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited