Nasdaq Solovis for Asset Owners | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Close modal
Pardon our appearance
We are actively working to enhance your experience by translating more content. However, please be aware that the page you are about to visit has not yet been translated.
We appreciate your undertanding and patience as we continue to imporove our services.
Continue
Investment Intelligence
Nasdaq Solovis
Nasdaq Investment Intelligence is focused on enabling economic growth through access to capital and transparency. Learn More
Nasdaq eVestment™
Bringing transparency and efficiency to the global institutional market, equipping managers, asset owners and consultants to make data-driven decisions, deploy their resources more productively and ultimately realize better outcomes.
Nasdaq Solovis
Gain instant insight across your entire multi-asset class portfolio. Improve visibility with one dashboard for modeling, analysis and reporting. Conduct bottom-up portfolio analysis from any angle. Empower users with powerful, easy to-use report writing tools to meet the needs of all constituents.
Nasdaq Data Link
Powerful, centralized, cloud-based technology platform providing access to more than 250 trusted data sets, available via API.
Nasdaq Global Indexes
Nasdaq is dedicated to designing powerful, relevant index and benchmark families that are in sync with the continually changing market environment.
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries (NFS) is evolving the way Limited Partners (LPs) and General Partners (GPs) participate in the private fund secondaries market. Our platform opens opportunities for liquidity and facilitates transparent end-to-end execution across multiple deal structures.
Nasdaq Fund Network
Nasdaq Fund Network (NFN) offers fund data services that deliver transparency to investable products to help ensure professionals and non-professionals can make more informed decisions with their assets.
Solutions
Analyst Services
Portfolio Analytics
Predict
Risk
Research & Insights
Partnerships
Masterclasses
More
Solutions
Analyst Services
Portfolio Analytics
Predict
Risk
Research & Insights
Partnerships
Masterclasses
Log In
Contact Us
Nasdaq has entered into an agreement to sell Solovis to global software investor Insight Partners.
Read the Press Release
Investment Intelligence
Nasdaq Solovis
Gain instant insight across your entire multi-asset class portfolio and create context fast to drive decision-making. Improve visibility with one dashboard for modeling, analysis, and reporting. Conduct bottom-up portfolio analysis from any angle. Empower users to go from ops to analysis with powerful, easy to-use report writing tools to meet the needs of all constituents.
Contact Us
Log In
Get to Know Nasdaq Solovis
Streamline portfolio data operations and gain the insights you need to drive portfolio decisions.
Streamline Portfolio Data Collection & Management
Expand your team’s capacity, ensure portfolio data accuracy, and gain deeper analysis capabilities by outsourcing your data capture and aggregation. The Nasdaq Solovis Analyst Services offering equips you with an outsourced operational infrastructure to simplify how you obtain, centralize and aggregate all aspects of your portfolio data for review and performance analysis.
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Analyst Services ->
Streamline Portfolio Data Collection & Management
Expand your team’s capacity, ensure portfolio data accuracy, and gain deeper analysis capabilities by outsourcing your data capture and aggregation. The Nasdaq Solovis Analyst Services offering equips you with an outsourced operational infrastructure to simplify how you obtain, centralize and aggregate all aspects of your portfolio data for review and performance analysis.
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Analyst Services ->
Understand Your Total Portfolio & How It's Performing
Designed for the unique demands of multi-asset class portfolio management, Nasdaq Solovis eliminates fragmented portfolio views by synthesizing a single platform that empowers you to analyze from all angles. Gain a holistic view of your multi-asset class portfolio and leverage robust analytics and reporting tools to administrative oversight of transactions, audit records and activities.
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Portfolio Analytics ->
Understand Your Total Portfolio & How It's Performing
Designed for the unique demands of multi-asset class portfolio management, Nasdaq Solovis eliminates fragmented portfolio views by synthesizing a single platform that empowers you to analyze from all angles. Gain a holistic view of your multi-asset class portfolio and leverage robust analytics and reporting tools to administrative oversight of transactions, audit records and activities.
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Portfolio Analytics ->
Mitigate Risk While Maintaining Return Objectives
Predict performance and assess risk for asset allocation and forecasting.
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Risk Analytics ->
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Predict ->
Mitigate Risk While Maintaining Return Objectives
Predict performance and assess risk for asset allocation and forecasting.
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Risk Analytics ->
Explore Nasdaq Solovis Predict ->
The second I saw a drag and drop recalculation of an entire investment world with total asset class reclassifications and shifts, I knew that Nasdaq Solovis was not the status quo.
Arthur Guimaraes, Chief Operating Officer, UC Investments
Read the Case Study
Empower Your Team to go from Operations to Analysis
Offload the time-intensive work of collecting and aggregating portfolio data from your managers, brokers, custodians, and market data vendors and give your team the time to focus on the analysis you rely on for decision making.
Enable Deeper Portfolio Analysis
Our robust data extraction workflows and tools enable us to gather all the information you need for comprehensive performance and exposure analysis.
Gain a Single Source of Truth
Eliminate fragmented portfolio understanding with a single source of truth for your entire portfolio across all public and private asset classes.
Efficiently Report to Stakeholders
With real-time reports and performance tracking, provide continual and customized communication on all aspects of your portfolio to your investment teams and external stakeholders.
Assess Portfolio Risk
Assess portfolio risk across all asset classes with bottom-up multi-factor risk exposures, historical scenario analysis and market stress testing.
Project Impact of Future Decisions
Evaluate future state investment decisions across all asset classes by projecting investment performance, liquidity and risk.
Connect with us to learn more about Nasdaq Solovis:
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies