Scroll Driven Animation Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
Scroll Driven Animation
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
14 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article Bringing Back Parallax With Scroll-Driven CSS Animations
animation Scroll Driven Animation
Bringing Back Parallax With Scroll-Driven CSS Animations
Parallax is a pattern in which different elements of a webpage move at varying speeds as the user scrolls, creating a three-dimensional, layered appearance. It once required JavaScript. Now we have scroll-driven animations in CSS, which is free from the main-thread blocking that can plague JavaScript animations.
Blake Lundquist
on
Aug 6, 2025
Direct link to the article Scroll-Driven Sticky Heading
position Scroll Driven Animation
Scroll-Driven Sticky Heading
I was playing around with scroll-driven animations, just searching for all sorts of random things you could do. That’s when I came up with the idea to animate main headings and, using scroll-driven animations, change the headings based on the user’s scroll position.
Amit Sheen
on
Jul 11, 2025
Direct link to the article Modern Scroll Shadows Using Scroll-Driven Animations
Scroll Driven Animation
Modern Scroll Shadows Using Scroll-Driven Animations
Using scroll shadows, especially for mobile devices, is a subtle bit of UX that Chris has covered before. Geoff covered a newer approach that uses the animation-timeline property. Here’s yet another way.
Kevin Hamer
on
May 5, 2025
Direct link to the article Worlds Collide: Keyframe Collision Detection Using Style Queries
Scroll Driven Animation Style Queries
Worlds Collide: Keyframe Collision Detection Using Style Queries
Interactive CSS animations with elements ricocheting off each other seem more plausible in 2025. While it’s unnecessary to implement Pong in CSS, the increasing flexibility and power of CSS reinforce Lee's suspicion that one day it will be a lifestyle choice whether to achieve any given effect with scripting or CSS.
Lee Meyer
on
Mar 31, 2025
Direct link to the article A CSS-Only Star Rating Component and More! (Part 2)
forms Scroll Driven Animation
A CSS-Only Star Rating Component and More! (Part 2)
In this second article of a two-part series, Temani Afif demonstrates an alternative approach to creating the star rating component from the first article using experimental scroll-driven animations rather than using the border-image property.
Temani Afif
on
Mar 7, 2025
Direct link to the article Scroll Driven Animations Notebook
Scroll Driven Animation
Scroll Driven Animations Notebook
Adam’s such a mad scientist with CSS. He’s been putting together a series of “notebooks” that make it easy for him to demo code. He’s got one for gradient text, one for a comparison slider, another for accordions…
Geoff Graham
on
Feb 13, 2025
Direct link to the article Web-Slinger.css: Across the Swiper-Verse
Scroll Driven Animation
Web-Slinger.css: Across the Swiper-Verse
Lee Meyer with a super clever idea using scroll-driven animations as an interaction to "like" or "dislike" something.
Lee Meyer
on
Jan 15, 2025
Direct link to the article Popping Comments With CSS Anchor Positioning and View-Driven Animations
anchor positioning Scroll Driven Animation
Popping Comments With CSS Anchor Positioning and View-Driven Animations
The State of CSS 2024 survey wrapped up and the results are interesting, as always. Even though each section is worth analyzing, we are usually most hyped about the section on the most used CSS features. And if you …
Juan Diego Rodríguez
on
Nov 6, 2024
Direct link to the article Web-Slinger.css: Like Wow.js But With CSS-y Scroll Animations
Scroll Driven Animation
Web-Slinger.css: Like Wow.js But With CSS-y Scroll Animations
Can we recreate a JavaScript library for scrolling animations with a modern CSS approach using CSS Scroll-Driven Animations? Yes. Yes, we can.
Lee Meyer
on
Nov 1, 2024
1
2
Older
TOC
Scroll till the cows come home with Web-Slinger.css
Teach scrolling elements to roll over and stay
How does Web Slinger like to sling it?
Trigger warning
Do androids dream of standardized scroll triggers?
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top