Amazon pays $2.5 billion to settle Prime memberships lawsuit
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsTechnologyAmazon pays $2.5 billion to settle Prime memberships lawsuit
Amazon pays $2.5 billion to settle Prime memberships lawsuit
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 25, 2025
12:21 PM
4
Amazon will pay $2.5 billion to settle claims by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) that it used dark patterns to trick millions of users into enrolling in its Prime program and made it as difficult as possible to cancel the recurring subscriptions.
The settlement requires Amazon to pay a $1 billion civil penalty and provide $1.5 billion in refunds to an estimated 35 million consumers affected by the company's deceptive practices related to Prime enrollment.
"The evidence showed that Amazon used sophisticated subscription traps designed to manipulate consumers into enrolling in Prime, and then made it exceedingly hard for consumers to end their subscription," said FTC Chairman Andrew N. Ferguson on Thursday.
"Today, we are putting billions of dollars back into Americans' pockets, and making sure Amazon never does this again."
Today's announcement follows the FTC's lawsuit against Amazon in June 2023, which alleged that the company had trapped millions into hard-to-cancel Prime memberships by manipulating users into signing up for Prime subscriptions without their knowledge, violating both the FTC Act and the Restore Online Shoppers' Confidence Act.
The FTC said at the time that Amazon used dark patterns throughout its online checkout and subscription cancellation processes, prompting customers to subscribe to Amazon Prime for $14.99 per month while simultaneously making it difficult to locate the option to complete the transaction without enrolling in Prime.
Additionally, it didn't inform the users before enrolling that they were signing up for a automatically renewing Prime subscription.
Amazon also allegedly implemented a cancellation process designed to deter customers from canceling their Prime subscriptions, a process described internally by Amazon as "Iliad," alluding to Homer's epic poem detailing the decade-long Trojan war.
"Amazon documents discovered in the lead up to trial showed that Amazon executives and employees knowingly discussed these unlawful enrollment and cancellation issues, with comments like 'subscription driving is a bit of a shady world' and leading consumers to unwanted subscriptions is 'an unspoken cancer,'" the FTC said today.
In July 2023, Amazon also agreed to pay a $25 million fine to settle allegations of violating children's privacy laws related to its Alexa voice assistant service.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft gives US students a free year of Microsoft 365 PersonalU.S. Senator accuses Microsoft of “gross cybersecurity negligence”US charges admin of LockerGoga, MegaCortex, Nefilim ransomwareKosovo hacker pleads guilty to running BlackDB cybercrime marketplaceTexas sues PowerSchool over breach exposing 62M students, 880k Texans
Amazon
Amazon Prime
FTC
Subscriptions
USA
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
ranchhand_
-
11 hours ago
Thanks Sergiu, good post.
ThomasMann
-
9 hours ago
Yes the "No, continue without prime" is about a third of the font size used for "Yes, subscribe" and it is also true that it takes another two mouse clicks to cancel Prime after receiving your order and having saved a couple of Dollars... and we all know that Bezos is a greedy p.... who will never give up on a possibility to make another billion, to make his obviously undesirable existence better, just like his his brother Thiel....
But the basic question remains, is it the job of government to protect stupid people from their own stupidity?
JesseJames1876
-
7 hours ago
OK, who gets the money then? What does ""Today, we are putting billions of dollars back into Americans' pockets" actually mean? :-)
deltasierra
-
6 hours ago
Louis Rossmann would be proud. :)
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
CISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploit
Sponsor Posts
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT