US Market Structure | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Spotlight on Recent Market Policies
U.S. Market Structure and Policy Hub
Welcome to the Nasdaq U.S. Market Structure Policy Hub, your go-to resource for Nasdaq's viewpoints on the evolving structure of U.S. Markets. When it comes to policy-making, understanding the implications is critical. View our latest insights as we demystify intricate regulatory issues with data-driven analysis and share our views and recommendations to help shape markets today and tomorrow.
Q&A: Nasdaq’s New Proposal for Tokenized Securities ->
As blockchain and similar technologies see increasing interest throughout the global financial system, Nasdaq is taking an important step to support the evolution of the markets.
Technology
How Market Structure and Technology Are Evolving
Sep 9, 2025
Q&A: Why Nasdaq is Proposing Listing Standards Changes
Sep 3, 2025
Nasdaq Newsroom
Market Infrastructure
Looking All Day for Data on 24-Hour Trading
Jul 31, 2025
Phil Mackintosh
Markets
Closing Time for 24-Hour Equity Markets
Mar 13, 2025
Phil Mackintosh
5 Things to Know About the Road to 24-Hour Trading
Money World Icon
Whitepaper
Nasdaq’s View: The Road to 24-Hour Trading
Nasdaq made headlines earlier this year with the announcement of plans to enable 24-hour trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The initiative has seen widespread industry support. Now, Nasdaq is working with regulators and critical industry infrastructure providers to make it a reality.
Read Article
24-Hour Trading Hub
Nasdaq’s View: The Road to 24-Hour Trading
Whitepaper
Nasdaq made headlines earlier this year with the announcement of plans to enable 24-hour trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The initiative has seen widespread industry support. Now, Nasdaq is working with regulators and critical industry infrastructure providers to make it a reality.
Read Article->
24-Hour Trading Hub->
Continued Advocacy for Evolving U.S. Markets
As a technology company that is redefining capital markets, we continuously advocate for market health and modernization – driving growth and capital formation today while paving the way for future market modernization.
Here, you can delve into the complexities of market structure and discover how technology continually shapes capital markets.
It’s our job—collectively as an industry—to continue to debate what will work best for the markets and foster positive change and innovation to modernize and drive the global economy, while ensuring our markets provide robust price discovery, liquidity and resiliency for all investors.
Chuck Mack, SVP, Head of Strategic Operations & Public Policy, Nasdaq
Chuck Mack is SVP, Head of Strategic Operations & Public Policy at Nasdaq. He’s responsible for strategic direction for the businesses in North America as well as public policy and capital allocation.
Learn more about Chuck Mack
Market Structure Advocacy Timeline
2025
What’s in a Name? A Stock by Any Other Name
Digital Assets Comment Letter ->Nasdaq’s Crypto ETP Response ->
2025
Elevate: Advancing U.S. Public Markets
Overview ->Read the Report ->
2023
Equity Market Structure Proposals
Overview ->Comment Letter to the Commission ->A Data-Driven Summary of the SEC's Proposals ->
2023
Volume Based Tiers Proposal
Overview ->Expect Lower Rebates to Lead to a Worse NBBO ->
2023
A Blueprint for SIP Modernization
Read the blueprint->
2022
Optimizing Markets
Read Our View ->
2019
TotalMarkets
Learn more about TotalMarkets ->Learn more about Test Driving Access Fee Pilot ->
2019
Intelligent Ticks
Read the proposal->
2018
Revitalize
Read the Proposal->
2018
Market Data Proposals
Read the proposal->
The market is moving. Subscribe to Market Makers for the latest insights.
The global economy is changing faster than ever before.
Market Makers, authored by Nasdaq Chief Economist Phil Mackintosh, provides deep insights and analysis on the transformative forces shaping the global economy, delivered every Thursday. Each week we examine the biggest influences disrupting and driving the global markets — from industry-shaping technology and trends to evolving policies, market-moving IPOs and beyond.
Phil Mackintosh
Senior Vice President, Nasdaq Chief Economist
Learn more about Market Makers
Nasdaq Review of SEC Market Structure Proposals Webinar
February 16, 2023 - Nasdaq discusses the initial summary of SEC equity market structure reform proposals issued on December 14, 2022. We believe in data-driven dialogues and recommendations to ensure a balanced evolution to our complex markets and ecosystems that preserves the robustness of U.S. Equity markets without causing unintentional harm or potential disruptions.
View the Proposals Webinar
Resources
September 09, 2025
How Market Structure and Technology Are Evolving
Watch Video
September 08, 2025
Q&A: Nasdaq’s New Proposal for Tokenized Securities
Read the Article
September 03, 2025
Q&A: Why Nasdaq is Proposing Listing Standards Changes
Read the Article
September 17, 2024
Tick Sizes Are A Trade-off
Read the Article
March 30, 2023
Letter to the Commission
Read the Letter
March 30, 2023
WSJ: The SEC Tries to Do Too Much, Too Fast
Read the Article
February 13, 2023
A Data-Driven Summary of the SEC’s New Proposals
Read the Article
March 16, 2023
The Economics of Tick Regimes
Read the Article
March 2, 2023
Research on What Ticks Make Spreads Trade Best
Read the Article
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq's Public Policy Advocacy Team works daily to stay abreast of legislative and regulatory actions taking place in Washington, DC, Brussels, and other world capitals. We have a strong history of working on the issues that affect public companies, having fought alongside our companies on issues such as capital formation, stock option accounting, Sarbanes-Oxley, immigration reform, legal reform, taxes, and many others.
Learn More ->
Watch the video
We’re at the Forefront of Shaping the Future of Markets
Kevin Kennedy - EVP, Head of North American Market Services
Subscribe to Nasdaq+ for full access
Exclusive content, detailed data sets, and best-in-class trade insights to rewrite your portfolio for tomorrow.
Try it Now
North American Markets
From breaking barriers as the first electronic stock exchange, to regularly eclipsing records for average daily volume (ADV) share, Nasdaq's North American markets give trading industry participants access to diverse and transparent liquidity in the equity and equity derivatives markets.
Learn More->
North American Markets
From breaking barriers as the first electronic stock exchange, to regularly eclipsing records for average daily volume (ADV) share, Nasdaq's North American markets give trading industry participants access to diverse and transparent liquidity in the equity and equity derivatives markets.
Learn More->
Modernization & the Role of the Exchange
Operating 18 markets across North America, the Nordics and the Baltics, as well as a technology provider to more than 130 marketplaces globally, Nasdaq sits at the center of capital markets, technology and regulation. We have a unique vantage point that informs our views on the evolution of markets.
Learn More->
Modernization & the Role of the Exchange
Operating 18 markets across North America, the Nordics and the Baltics, as well as a technology provider to more than 130 marketplaces globally, Nasdaq sits at the center of capital markets, technology and regulation. We have a unique vantage point that informs our views on the evolution of markets.
Learn More->
Get Started with Nasdaq
Contact Us
Sign up for monthly news and insights on U.S. Equities Markets
Subscribe
Open
Newsletter
Close modal
Monthly News and Insights on U.S. Equities Markets
Sign up for monthly news and insights on U.S. Equities Markets
Subscribe
Open
Newsletter
Close modal
Monthly News and Insights on U.S. Equities Markets
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies