Starlink Internet Review: Low Satellites, High Pricing - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Starlink Internet Review: Plans, Pricing, Speed and Availability
Starlink is a game-changer for internet accessibility. Here's what to expect.
Article updated on July 17, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
David Anders
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
David Anders Former Senior Writer David covered broadband providers, smart home devices and security products. Expertise Broadband providers | Home internet | Security cameras
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
34353637383940+ Reviews 344345346347348349350400+ Cities/States
Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links.
Unavailable in
Provider unavailable in 90001 Edit ...
See at Starlink
Or call:
Or call to learn more:
(833) 318-9228
Starlink rating How we calculated our rating
6.5/10
CNET Score
We score internet providers for speed, value and customer care. Our data sources include the FCC, J.D. Power, The American Customer Satisfaction Index and extensive in-house research.
Read more
6.5 / 10
SCORE
Speed
6.5/10
Value
6/10
Customer Care
7/10
Pros
Decent speeds for a rural connection
Low latency
Unlimited data
Mobile internet available
Cons
High upfront costs
Slower than cable or fiber internet
Vulnerable to inclement weather
See more pros and cons
Table of Contents
Starlink Internet Review: Plans, Pricing, Speed and Availability
Starlink internet review
Starlink internet plans and pricing
Starlink additional fees, data caps and installation
Starlink's simple self-installation
Starlink coverage: Available almost anywhere in the US
Starlink's fleet expansion continues at a rapid rate
How does Starlink compare?
What's the final word on Starlink?
Starlink internet FAQ
Starlink internet reviewSatellite internet is often seen as a last-resort option, though it can be a lifeline for rural communities lacking 5G internet, cable internet or fiber-optic internet service. In a short time since launching service, Starlink has become a household name, drastically improving rural and on-the-go internet access. To date, Starlink is the only satellite internet provider to offer speeds up to 220Mbps with low latency, thanks to the performance of its 7,000 and counting low Earth orbit satellites. Starlink's recent foray into in-flight Wi-Fi -- where average speeds in the air are actually faster than what you'd get from home internet service on the ground -- and direct-to-cell service further solidify Starlink's sweeping impact on internet access.However, home internet service from Starlink usually comes with a hefty price tag: The standard Residential plan starts at $120 monthly, not including monthly equipment costs. Locating local internet providers
In recent months, Starlink has announced some price cuts on various aspects of its service, though there's some fine print to consider. For example, its Residential Lite service is more competitively priced at $80 a month, but that price is still high compared to much faster speeds that you could get from fiber or cable internet providers. Plus, that Residential Lite service is not as widely available as the standard plan and is subject to more network congestion. If you live in New York and qualify based on income or through participation in federal assistance programs, you can sign up for Starlink for $15 a month -- though you'll still have to pay for equipment.
Locating local internet providers
Equipment costs $349, give or take a hundred bucks. In some cases, you may be able to get that equipment for free, though you have to commit to 12 months of service. Starlink is also imposing a one-time $100 to $500 congestion charge in some areas. The monthly rate on mobile/roam service may be lower, but so are the expected speeds.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
Still, despite the sky-high costs, Starlink might be the best broadband option for many, particularly residents in rural areas.
Getty Images/CNETStarlink internet plans and pricing
Starlink plan Monthly priceSpeed rangeEquipment costsData allotmentResidential Lite $8050-100Mbps download, 5-20Mbps uploads$349 upfrontStandard unlimitedResidential $120150-250Mbps download, 5-20Mbps uploads$349 upfrontStandard unlimitedLocal Priority $65-$54040-220Mbps downloads, 8-25Mbps uploads$349-$1,499 upfront50GB-2TB, standard unlimited thereafterRoam $50-$1655-50Mbps downloads, 5-25Mbps uploads$349 or ($599 for the Starlink Mini)Standard unlimitedGlobal Priority $250-$2,15040-220Mbps downloads, 8-25Mbps uploads$349-$1,49950GB-5TB, standard unlimited thereafter
Show more (1 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.Starlink's plans can be confusing to navigate, but it typically markets its services as either "Residential" or "Business." Within those categories, Starlink offers on-the-go plans and "priority data" upgrades.There are two standard residential options: Residential Lite costs $80 per month for 50 to 100Mbps in download speeds, while the standard Residential plan costs $120 for 150 to 250Mbps. While both plans technically come with unlimited data, Starlink notes that Residential Lite will be de-prioritized compared to Residential service during peak hours.If you live in New York and qualify for federal assistance programs, you can now get Starlink for $15 a month, though you'll still have to contend with the $349 up-front charge for equipment.Starlink also offers "Priority" plans marketed toward businesses, though you don't necessarily need to own a business to sign up for one of these plans. The Local Priority plans are geared toward fixed-site or mobile businesses on land, while the Global Priority plans are geared toward maritime or global businesses. The Local Priority plans start at $65 monthly for 50GB of priority data; that price tag may seem attractive, but Starlink recommends this plan as a "backup connectivity" option for small businesses.The Roam and Global Priority plans are for those on the go, such as campers, RVers, nomads, mobile businesses or maritime explorers. The plans start with 50GB of priority data for $50 monthly, and there's a "Roam Unlimited" option without a data cap for $165 monthly. Starlink's Global Priority plans are best suited for ocean or global land use and start at $250 monthly with 50GB of priority data.Although the Flat High Performance equipment recommended for the plan costs a hefty $1,499, you can choose between the Enterprise ($699) or Standard ($349) equipment instead. Occasionally, Starlink offers refurbished equipment for $199, but that depends on availability and location.I'd like to see a bit more speed for the price or a lower price altogether, but Starlink definitely adds value in areas where other satellite services cannot, especially through its mobile plans and higher data allotments.For context, Hughesnet and Viasat top out at around 100Mbps to 150Mbps in most areas. Starlink leads with faster speeds and is likely faster than other rural internet options, though it's still just short of the FCC's minimum broadband speed recommendation. Starlink additional fees, data caps and installationStarlink continues to grow in popularity among rural internet customers, and it's clear why. Even though this satellite internet provider boasts impressive speeds, it's always a good idea to take a closer look at the terms of service so you know what you're getting into. Here's what you can expect from Starlink. Data capsStarlink's plans offer "unlimited data," but you'll still be subjected to internet throttling during peak congestion hours. The Residential home internet plan includes unlimited data -- and will be prioritized over the Residential Lite plan during peak business hours. However, you'll still be subject to network congestion like you would with any other fixed wireless internet connection. It's also worth noting that you cannot buy "priority" data if you sign up for the Residential or Roam Unlimited plan; you'll have to upgrade to a Priority plan with a higher monthly rate. The Local and Global Priority plans include allotments of "priority" data starting at 50GB and going up to 2TB.The priority data gives users network precedence over Standard users, potentially delivering faster speeds that are less vulnerable to network congestion. Once your priority data pool is exhausted, the service switches over to standard data. When that happens, bandwidth is prioritized the same way as everyone else's on the network at any given time. As a result, you may experience slower speeds for the remainder of the billing cycle. Still, it's far less of a penalty than the substantial and intentional speed throttling Hughesnet and Viasat can enforce once customers surpass their monthly data allotment. Plus, if you're on a Priority plan, you can top up your data by paying $50 for 50GB if you need to. Congestion chargeIn many areas around the country, Starlink now charges a one-time congestion fee of $100 to $500, depending on where you live. Starlink says on its website, "Our intention is to no longer charge this fee to new customers as soon as network capacity improves." You can enter your email to be notified when the charge is removed.Low latency for online gamingAnother advantage of Starlink is its low latency, advertised as 25 to 60 milliseconds, comparable to cable internet and other terrestrial connection types. Most customers should see latency low enough to support online gaming and avoid excessively lagging video calls.Sometimes called "ping," latency measures the time it takes for information to travel to and from your internet provider. Geostationary satellites, like those employed by Hughesnet and Viasat, orbit some 22,000 miles above the Earth, resulting in the highest latency of any modern internet connection.Starlink's low Earth orbit satellites zip around the planet at an altitude of around 350 miles -- 60 times closer to the Earth's surface than traditional satellites, per the company's claims -- so transferring information back and forth takes far less time.High equipment fees but free installationHughesnet and Viasat allow you to skip the upfront fee and lease equipment for an additional $15 or so per month. No such option is available with Starlink; Customers purchase the equipment and after 30 days, it's theirs to keep. The current cost of standard Starlink equipment is $349, currently lower than its previous offer of $599 -- at least for the time being. If you agree to a 12-month commitment to using Starlink, you may be able to waive that equipment fee entirely.In some cases, Starlink may offer refurbished equipment for a much lower price of $199, but that's not a guarantee and likely depends on product availability and location.Starlink does not charge for installation and offers free professional rooftop installation in select areas. Hughesnet and Viasat, on the other hand, require professional installation, which can add $100 or more to your upfront costs. Better still, Starlink equipment is apparently simple to set up, as seen in the video below.
Watch this: Testing Out SpaceX Starlink Satellite Internet
12:32
Take your internet on the go with the Starlink MiniThe rollout of the Starlink Mini leveled up Starlink's appeal to rural, traveling customers. The equipment costs $599, with a monthly subscription cost between $50 and $165. The equipment can fit in your backpack and includes a 30-day trial without a contract requirement, so you can stop and start the service anytime. If you upgrade to the Roam Unlimited plan for $165 a month, you can get unlimited data and guaranteed in-motion use up to 100 mph to access the internet on the go from your vehicle.
StarlinkAlthough the typical download speed averages 50Mbps with a 10Mbps upload speed, Elon Musk shared a speed test while using the Starlink Mini that displayed speeds up to 100Mbps, with a 23ms latency. This means you can get internet quality good enough to binge your favorite shows or game with your friends, whether on a boat in the middle of the ocean or hiking the Grand Canyon.Starlink's simple self-installationStarlink offers free professional roof installation in select areas, but the self-install process seems fairly straightforward. Starlink offers several mounting options for rooftops, yards and the exterior of your home. There's even a Starlink app for Android and iOS that uses augmented reality to help customers pick the best location and position for their receivers.In 2021, CNET's John Kim signed up for Starlink at his home in California and began testing it at various locations. At home, he averaged download speeds of around 78Mbps and latency of around 36ms. You can see more of his first impressions in the video included on this page.Starlink coverage: Available almost anywhere in the US
StarlinkAccording to Federal Communication Commission data from June 2024, Starlink is available to 99.7% of US households. That's the highest coverage percentage of any internet provider, including Hughesnet and Viasat.You can use Starlink's availability checker to see where service is available -- and what speeds you can expect.Service isn't limited to just the US. According to the company, the list of countries currently served by the growing network of low-orbit satellites includes the US, Canada, the UK, France, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Ireland, Belgium, Switzerland, Denmark, Portugal, Australia, New Zealand and others.Starlink's fleet expansion continues at a rapid rateStarlink has been busy. The total fleet now sits at roughly 7,000 functional satellites, but there's still a way to go. Starlink will likely need at least 10,000 satellites in orbit before it can claim to offer full service to most of the globe, and SpaceX has shown signs that it wants as many as 42,000 satellites in its constellation.What does this mean for Starlink internet?Ideally, Starlink's coverage and speeds will improve with every launch. Starlink's website says, "Starlink users typically experience download speeds between 25 and 220Mbps, with a majority of users experiencing speeds over 100Mbps." The internet speed-tracking site Ookla reported that Starlink offered average download speeds of nearly 67Mbps in the US during the first quarter of 2023. (Ookla is owned by Ziff Davis, the same parent company as CNET.)That's down significantly from the end of 2021 when Starlink had median download speeds of just over 100Mbps. The drop may be the result of growing subscriptions and increased network congestion. Hopefully, average speeds will jump back up to around 100Mbps or higher soon as groups of new satellites are added to the fleet.How does Starlink compare?Starlink isn't replacing your fiber, cable or even fixed wireless connections like Verizon 5G Home Internet and T-Mobile 5G Home Internet just yet, or possibly ever. That doesn't seem to be the intent behind the service. Starlink is best suited to provide a practical solution for broadband in underserved areas or for a mobile demographic, all areas where traditional wired or fixed wireless services are scarce or unavailable.Such areas have previously had two internet options: Hughesnet or Viasat. Starlink has emerged as a third option, so how does it compare to its satellite internet rivals?Hughesnet can be a bit cheaper per month than Starlink, with standard rates of $50 to $95 for maximum download speeds of 50 to 100Mbps. Viasat is also cheaper, with a standard rate of $100 to $150 per month for up to 150Mbps. So Starlink is a slightly more expensive option than both Hughesnet and Starlink despite the faster speed potential, unlimited data and lower latency.Pricing can be a toss-up between all three satellite providers depending on the ISP or plan you choose and the route you go with the equipment. Starlink holds the advantage in basically every other category, including maximum speeds, latency, data allowances and contract requirements.What's the final word on Starlink?Starlink is an exciting and much-needed addition to rural internet's long-limited landscape. Although service is slower and more expensive than many other providers and connection types, the relatively high-speed potential, low latency, unlimited data and no contract requirements boost its value as a rural internet provider.
Watch this: Starlink Satellites Are Bringing Internet to Millions. We'll Explain the Pros and Cons
02:38
Starlink internet FAQ
Does bad weather affect Starlink?
Struggles with inclement weather are a definite downside to satellite internet. Per Starlink's FAQ, the receiver can melt snow that lands on it, but it can't do anything about surrounding snow build-up and other obstructions that might block its line of sight to the satellites."We recommend installing Starlink in a location that avoids snow build-up and other obstructions from blocking the field of view," the FAQ reads. "Heavy rain or wind can also affect your satellite internet connection, potentially leading to slower speeds or a rare outage."
Can you see Starlink satellites in the sky?
Concern about the proliferation of privately owned satellites in space and controversy in astronomical circles about the impact of low-orbiting satellites on the night sky is not uncommon. In 2019, shortly after Starlink's first broadband satellite deployment, the International Astronomical Union released a statement warning of unforeseen consequences for stargazing and the protection of nocturnal wildlife."We do not yet understand the impact of thousands of these visible satellites scattered across the night sky and despite their good intentions, these satellite constellations may threaten both," the statement reads. Since then, Starlink has begun testing various designs intended to reduce the brightness and visibility of its satellites.At the start of 2020, the company tested a "DarkSat" satellite with a special nonreflective coating. Later, in June 2020, the company launched a "VisorSat" satellite that features a special sunshade visor. In August, Starlink launched another batch of satellites -- this time, they all were equipped with visors."We want to make sure we do the right thing to make sure little kids can look through their telescope," SpaceX president and COO Gwynne Shotwell said. "It's cool for them to see a Starlink. But they should be looking at Saturn, at the moon...and not want to be interrupted." "The Starlink teams have worked closely with leading astronomers around the world to better understand the specifics of their observations and engineering changes we can make to reduce satellite brightness," the company website reads.
Where can I learn more about Starlink?
We'll continue to cover Starlink's progress from various angles here on CNET, so stay tuned. You should also read Eric Mack's excellent work covering Starlink. Among other issues, he closely examines the project's goals and challenges and the implications for underserved internet consumers and astronomers concerned with light pollution obstructing views in the night sky. Beyond that, we expect to continue testing Starlink's network as it expands. When we know more about how the satellite service performs as an internet provider, we'll tell you all about it.
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.