Morningstar’s Take on Tariffs: Stock Impacts, Portfolio Tips, and More | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Economic and Market Analysis from Morningstar Analysts
How Can Investors Protect Their Portfolios During Market Volatility?
Home
Economy
Morningstar’s Take on Tariffs: Stock Impacts, Portfolio Tips, and More
Morningstar’s Take on Tariffs: Stock Impacts, Portfolio Tips, and More
What Trump’s tariff hikes mean for stocks, the economy, and global markets.
Tori Brovet
,
Emelia Fredlick
, and
Lauren Hammett
Apr 17, 2025
Share
April’s tariff announcements sent global stock markets reeling as investors navigate unknown economic territory. We’ve compiled insights from our analysts and experts to help you make sense of what’s happening in the markets.Find our complete collection of tariff-related articles and analysis here.Economic and Market Analysis from Morningstar Analysts Bear Market vs. Economic Recession Answers to questions you might be asking about where the market stands. This is What Real Market Uncertainty Looks Like If tariffs stick, the economic and investing landscape could be altered in unknown ways for years to come. Tariffs Are a Self-Inflicted Economic Catastrophe We now see a 40%-50% chance of a recession over the next year. What Do the New Trump Tariffs Mean for Fed Interest-Rate Cuts? Powell says the Fed isn’t in a hurry, but analysts see the central bank moving faster and further. Why You Shouldn’t Panic Over Daily Market Swings For long-term investors, success is measured in years and decades, not days.
What Lies Ahead in Trump’s Trade War After a Week of Market Turmoil
Plus, the importance of the Fed’s next meeting and how to protect your retirement portfolio.
11m 51s
Apr 11, 2025
Watch
Where to Find Investment Opportunities in the Tariff Era
Plus, Morningstar’s updated forecasts for the economy, inflation, and interest rates.
45m 4s
Apr 9, 2025
Watch
How Can Investors Protect Their Portfolios During Market Volatility?The temptation to react during times of volatility can be strong. Before you make a move with your portfolio, read up on advice and tips from Morningstar’s experts. What Now? An Investor’s To-Do List for Chaotic Markets A down market offers opportunities to check progress toward your long-term investing goals—and even save on taxes. Trump Tariff Selloff: How Long-Term Investors Can Best Weather the Storm Amid Thursday’s losses, strategists say opportunities remain for investors who stay coolheaded. The Best Investments to Own During a Recession When the economy slows, some assets are safer than others. How to Diversify Your Portfolio to Handle a Market Correction Bond funds from Fidelity, Vanguard, and J.P. Morgan could help diversify growth-heavy portfolios. Q1’s Biggest Lesson for Investors: Diversification Works 5 charts on how a diversified portfolio bested the scary “stocks plunge” headlines. Handling Market Volatility How to Keep Your Cool in a Volatile Market There’s a lot happening, but long-term investors can tune most of it out. How to Train Your Brain to Handle Market Uncertainty Why emotional coping is an essential skill for long-term investors. What We’ve Learned From 150 Years of Stock Market Crashes Though they varied in length and severity, the market always recovered and went on to new highs. It Feels Different This Time—but It Probably Isn’t No matter how often market volatility strikes, behavior can be hard to manage with amplified uncertainty. We’ve Been Through Market Corrections Before. Here’s What We’re Doing Now. Morningstar columnists and editors share how they’re thinking about their own money in today’s market. Survival Guides for Any Life Stage A Down-Market Survival Guide for Retirees These six steps can help you navigate market volatility in retirement. A Down-Market Survival Guide for Pre-Retirees If you’re within 10 years of retirement, these eight steps can help you improve your situation and give you peace of mind. A Down-Market Survival Guide for Your 20s, 30s, and 40s When you have many years until retirement, market volatility should be easy to shrug off, but it isn’t always. Five steps to taking control.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Economy
View All
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
The Fed’s ‘Difficult Situation’: Reading Between the Lines of the September Dot Plot
Inflation is sticky, but the labor market is cooling. How will the Fed handle rate cuts from here?
Sarah Hansen Sep 17, 2025
About the Authors
View All Authors
Tori Brovet Content Development Editor
More from Author
Tori Brovet is a content development editor for Morningstar.
Inherited IRAs: What to Know About Taxes, RMDs, and More
Tori Brovet Sep 15, 2025
The Best Basic Materials Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 12, 2025
The Best AI Stocks to Buy Now
Tori Brovet Sep 11, 2025
The Best Healthcare Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 10, 2025
The Best Bond Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 9, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Fixed-Income Investing
Tori Brovet Sep 8, 2025
The Best Utilities Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 5, 2025
The Best Dividend Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 3, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Semiliquid Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 3, 2025
How to Invest Like Warren Buffett
Emelia Fredlick Aug 29, 2025
Emelia Fredlick Senior Editor
More from Author
Emelia Fredlick is a senior editor for Morningstar.com.
The 60/40 Portfolio: A 150-Year Markets Stress Test
Emelia Fredlick Sep 15, 2025
What We’ve Learned From 150 Years of Stock Market Crashes
Emelia Fredlick Sep 12, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Fixed-Income Investing
Tori Brovet Sep 8, 2025
How to Invest Like Warren Buffett
Emelia Fredlick Aug 29, 2025
Morningstar′s Guide to ETF Investing
Emelia Fredlick Jul 21, 2025
Best Sustainable Companies to Own: 2025 Edition
Emelia Fredlick Jul 14, 2025
22 Best Healthcare Companies to Invest In
Emelia Fredlick Jul 11, 2025
Best International Companies to Own: 2025 Edition
Emelia Fredlick Jul 8, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Diversification
Tori Brovet May 14, 2025
Are Robo-Advisors Still Worth It?
Lan Anh Tran May 2, 2025
Lauren Hammett Audience Engagement Associate
More from Author
Lauren Hammett is an audience engagement associate at Morningstar.
An Investing Guide for Every Life Stage
Margaret Giles Aug 21, 2025
7 Great Investing Books for Beginners
Tori Brovet Jun 26, 2025
Best Investing Podcasts for Beginners
Tori Brovet Jun 6, 2025
A Financial Guide for 2025 College Graduates
Lauren Hammett May 16, 2025
The 7 Best Retirement Books
Tori Brovet May 2, 2025
Morningstar’s Take on Tariffs: Stock Impacts, Portfolio Tips, and More
Tori Brovet Apr 17, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility