$320 camera lens buyers hit with $2,000 delivery fee in tariffs fight — some sellers implement exorbitant shipping costs to dissuade US customers | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
CPUs
Trump mulls a 300% tariff on chips — levies coming within two weeks as Section 232 investigation nears completion
Tech Industry
Trump wants digital taxes on U.S. services axed worldwide
Tech Industry
Trump announces 100% semiconductor tariffs for chips made outside the U.S.
GPUs
US delays gaming GPU tariffs (again)
Semiconductors
Trump warns that he will soon announce ‘fairly substantial’ chip tariffs
Tech Industry
U.S. imposes 25% tariffs on all products from Japan and South Korea
Semiconductors
Trump's 100% chip tariffs will likely hurt smaller manufacturers, as major companies court exemptions
Nintendo
Nintendo Switch 2 prices might climb due to tariff changes
PC Cases
Hyte rolls back MSRPs on its cases for the first time since tariff announcements
Semiconductors
EU fab tool makers, including ASML, get reprieve in EU-U.S. tariffs deal
Manufacturing
Trump says he has struck a trade deal with Hanoi
Big Tech
President Trump reignites 'digital barriers' issue warning that tariffs would be imposed on countries that 'harm US IT companies'
Tech Industry
Trump promises new semiconductor tariffs
Tech Industry
China launches anti-dumping probe into U.S. analog chips used in PCs and routers
GPUs
Nvidia H20 GPUs reportedly caught up in U.S. Commerce Department's worst export license backlog in 30 years
Tech Industry
$320 camera lens buyers hit with $2,000 delivery fee in tariffs fight — some sellers implement exorbitant shipping costs to dissuade US customers
News
By
Jowi Morales
published
17 September 2025
Imagine paying over $1,000 in charges for a $640 item.
Comments (26)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Shutterstock)
President Donald Trump ended the de minimis exemption for goods coming from China and Hong Kong in May 2025, with imports from the rest of the world following suit at the end of July 2025. This means that products entering the U.S. are now subject to customs duties and import taxes, even if their value is less than $800. This change most heavily affected online shoppers, especially those who are used to purchasing cheap goods from abroad. This has caused some retailers to take extreme 'countermeasures,' often to dissuade Americans from purchasing their products.Some sellers, particularly on eBay, have resorted to charging exorbitant shipping fees to deter Americans from purchasing their items. 404 Media reports seeing several listings of lightweight items from across the globe with high delivery costs.For example, there’s a camera lens from Japan priced at around $320, which only costs $29 to ship globally — except for the U.S., which has a $2,000 delivery fee. Other sellers charge more than $500 to ship their items to the U.S., far more expensive than the actual price of the product. According to the report, this is much easier than taking down hundreds of listings and excluding the U.S. from them. There’s also the issue that some American buyers might not understand how tariffs work, and leave negative feedback on the seller, affecting their profile on the platform.
You may like
Trump mulls a 300% tariff on chips — levies coming within two weeks as Section 232 investigation nears completion
Trump wants digital taxes on U.S. services axed worldwide
Trump announces 100% semiconductor tariffs for chips made outside the U.S.
According to the Wall Street Journal, one customer bought a $77 shirt from a Swedish brand and was charged an extra $42.35 on top of the $30 shipping fee. Another person bought $640 worth of oven replacement parts from Canada and was surprised by a $1,196.12 “government charges” bill and a brokerage fee of $128.17. These tariffs and import taxes heavily affect tech goods, especially as many of them are manufactured outside of the U.S. Tom’s Hardware staff are also encountering a similar problem, though not to these extremes, even when dealing with review samples.This change has caused widespread confusion in international shipping, with many post offices across the globe suspending e-commerce shipments until they’ve updated their systems to account for the new charges. The big shipping companies in the U.S. — FedEx, DHL, and UPS — reported that customers are confused by the new rules. And although they process tariff payments for imports, either by the buyer or the seller, the service is not free, resulting in additional brokerage or processing fees.Some sellers pay the tariffs upfront to make the transaction smoother for their customers, while others leave all these extra costs to the recipient. Nevertheless, the person who bought the item will ultimately be the one responsible for import taxes. But even though couriers are trying to make the process as smooth as possible, the payment process can sometimes be confusing.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (26)
Jowi MoralesSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterJowi Morales is a tech enthusiast with years of experience working in the industry. He’s been writing with several tech publications since 2021, where he’s been interested in tech hardware and consumer electronics.
Read more
Trump mulls a 300% tariff on chips — levies coming within two weeks as Section 232 investigation nears completion
Trump wants digital taxes on U.S. services axed worldwide
Trump announces 100% semiconductor tariffs for chips made outside the U.S.
US delays gaming GPU tariffs (again)
Trump warns that he will soon announce ‘fairly substantial’ chip tariffs
U.S. imposes 25% tariffs on all products from Japan and South Korea
Latest in Tech Industry
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
Entire website dedicated to helping San Francisco motorists avoid parking tickets goes live
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
Latest in News
Intel taps Apple for potential investment, says report
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
AMD keeps AM4 platform on life support with 2020-era Zen 3 CPU
Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD
Microsoft develops breakthrough chip cooling method
26 Comments
Comment from the forums
S58_is_the_goat
Now you yanks will know the feeling of getting gouged by ups fees 😂
Reply
mangaTom
I was wondering before why Americans were able to buy a lot of things, let's say from Aliexpress, without complaining about import taxes. Now they can finally experience what it feels what others have to go through when buying imported goods.:D
Reply
chaos215bar2
This is just straight up shipping fraud, unless some shipping company is actually charging $2000. There's nothing new about it. Shady sellers have been doing this for years. Tariffs are just a new excuse.
If a seller doesn't want to ship to the US, Ebay lets them disable listings per-country. If they're listing with $2000 shipping instead, then they're hoping to get someone to actually pay it, not trying to dissuade buyers.
Reply
chaos215bar2
mangaTom said:I was wondering before why Americans we're able to buy a lot of things, let's say from Aliexpress, without complaining about import taxes. Now they can finally experience what it feels what others have to go through when buying imported goods.:DThis is a misunderstanding of US tax structure.
Americans already were and still are largely legally required to pay sales tax on imports. That's just a state level tax, and states haven't been very good about enforcing collection. The new federal taxes are added on top of that.
Reply
King_V
chaos215bar2 said:This is just straight up shipping fraud, unless some shipping company is actually charging $2000. There's nothing new about it. Shady sellers have been doing this for years. Tariffs are just a new excuse.
If a seller doesn't want to ship to the US, Ebay lets them disable listings per-country. If they're listing with $2000 shipping instead, then they're hoping to get someone to actually pay it, not trying to dissuade buyers.I'm not sure how this is fraud. This is the cost that the seller incurs when shipping to the US. This cost is passed on to the customer. Or are you insisting that the seller to eat the tariff cost?
Reply
magbarn
I bought a used Omega from Japan and had to pay over $500+ in tariff fees in order to get UPS to deliver it to me. I've bought more expensive watches in the past and only had to pay a tenth of that. Tariffs are being paid directly by the consumer.
Reply
-Fran-
surprisedpikachuface.jpg
Regards.
Reply
thisisaname
magbarn said:I bought a used Omega from Japan and had to pay over $500+ in tariff fees in order to get UPS to deliver it to me. I've bought more expensive watches in the past and only had to pay a tenth of that. Tariffs are being paid directly by the consumer.Tariff are paid by the importer, if you buy from abroad you are the importer.
Reply
magbarn
thisisaname said:Tariff are paid by the importer, if you buy from abroad you are the importer.Either way someone is paying for it and ends up being us, the consumer, at the end. The CEO's/stockholders aren't going to take it in the chin for free.
Reply
bigdragon
chaos215bar2 said:This is just straight up shipping fraud, unless some shipping company is actually charging $2000. There's nothing new about it. Shady sellers have been doing this for years. Tariffs are just a new excuse.
If a seller doesn't want to ship to the US, Ebay lets them disable listings per-country. If they're listing with $2000 shipping instead, then they're hoping to get someone to actually pay it, not trying to dissuade buyers.When the ridiculous shipping fees are well publicized, then I don't see that as fraud. That reads to me like "I don't want to deal with shipping to your country, but I will if you pay me this higher amount." In other words, it's a sort of penalty rate or "make it worth my time" fee. Ridiculous? Sure. Fraud? No, I don't think so.
My big concern with the tariffs and ending of exemptions is that these things are on-again, off-again, on-again without any sort of organized phase-in ramp-up.
Reply
View All 26 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.