The 8 Best Sleep Trackers of 2025 According to Our Sleep Experts - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Sleep Tech
The 8 Best Sleep Trackers of 2025 According to Our Sleep Experts
These top-rated sleep trackers make it easier to monitor your rest and improve your sleep habits by using cold, hard data.
Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep Caroline Igo (she/her/hers) was a wellness editor at CNET and holds Sleep Science Coach and Stress Management certificates from the Spencer Institute. She received her bachelor's degree in creative writing from Miami University and continues to further her craft in her free time. Before joining CNET, Caroline wrote for past CNN anchor, Daryn Kagan. Expertise Sleep | Mattress Accessories | Vitamins and Supplements | Nutrition | Personal care Credentials Carl R. Greer/Andrew D. Hepburn Award for Best Nonfiction Essay (Miami University, 2020)
See full bio
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach. Expertise Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition and Supplements Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach
See full bio
Caroline Igo
,
Taylor Leamey
July 23, 2025
4:43 a.m. PT 13 min read
Whoop 4.0 Best overall sleep tracker
$239 at Amazon
Oura Ring Gen4 Best wearable sleep tracker
$349 at Amazon
Samsung Galaxy Ring Best sleep tracker for Android users
$400 at Samsung
Fitbit Inspire 3 Best tracker watch
$100 at Amazon
Garmin Forerunner 165 Best sleep tracker for sleep and fitness
$234 at Amazon
Withings Scan Watch 2 Best sleep tracker without a subscription
$350 at Withings
Eight Sleep Pod 3 Cover Best mattress cover sleep tracker
$2,295 at Eight Sleep
Withings Sleep Tracking Mat Best non-wearable sleep tracker
$150 at Amazon
Show more (3 items)
Table of Contents
The 8 Best Sleep Trackers of 2025 According to Our Sleep Experts
What is the best overall sleep tracker?
Best sleep trackers for 2025
Best overall sleep tracker
Best wearable sleep tracker
Best sleep tracker for Android users
Best tracker watch
Best sleep tracker for sleep and fitness
Best sleep tracker without a subscription
Best mattress cover sleep tracker
Best non-wearable sleep tracker
How we tested the best sleep trackers
What to consider when shopping for a sleep tracker
For years now, we've been told that we have to get enough sleep to maintain our physical and mental health. But in reality, the quality of that sleep might be more important than the quantity. Sure, getting a solid 8 hours in bed is a good place to start, but it's no good if you aren't getting the kind of restorative sleep that your body needs. It’s all about how well your body moves through each sleep stage and whether you’re getting the kind of rest that leaves you ready to take on the day. The best sleep trackers take the guesswork out of bedtime by monitoring your habits and sleep quality before offering real insights into what’s helping -- or hurting -- your sleep.I tested a range of trackers to find out which ones actually live up to the hype. From smart rings and watches to non-wearable options that slide under your mattress, each pick on this list offers something useful. Read on to see my experience testing the best sleep trackers on the market.What is the best overall sleep tracker?My favorite overall sleep tracker is the Whoop 4.0 Band, thanks to its in-depth sleep information and personalized recommendations. With no buttons or screens on the band, Whoop looks simple at first glance. The band's five LEDs, body temperature sensors and photodiodes provide valuable insight into your sleep. A few of our CNET sleep experts have been using Whoop for months and have found it to provide the most reliable and accurate sleep data.
CNET's sleep experts say the Whoop provides reliable sleep data. Aly Lopez/CNETTaylor Leamey, senior sleep writer, tested the AI Whoop Coach and found it intuitive and a great feature if you're already interested in the band. You can ask the AI coach anything and it will give you personalized answers and insights based on your sleep data. With Whoop, you get sleep data and assistance with interpreting everything.Whoop 4.0 Band
$239 at Amazon
Best sleep trackers for 2025
Editors' choice
Aly Lopez/CNET
Whoop 4.0
Best overall sleep tracker
$239 at Amazon
Wearable YesMetrics measured HRV, resting heart rate, recovery, respiratory rate, blood oxygen, body temperature, exercise and sleep performanceTrial One monthWarranty LifetimeSubscription $30 monthly (12-month commitment), $199 family membership, $239 upfront for 12 months or $399 for 24 monthsPrice $$$ Our take: The Whoop 4.0 sleep tracker is for those who want to track their sleep and their exercise. It’s for anyone who wants personalized sleep insights. It has an integrated coach that provides personalized recommendations, like when to go to bed or mindful breathing techniques, based on your sleep data. Whoop also is for those who don't want a screen to distract them at night. The review: "Of all the sleep trackers out there, Whoop gives me the most in-depth data on my sleep, strain and recovery,” said sleep writer Taylor Leamey. With Whoop’s advanced AI-powered technology and comprehensive data analysis, it is the ultimate sleep tracker. Whoop provides excellent insights and monitors key sleep metrics like sleep stages, heart-rate variability, respiratory rate and hours of sleep and restorative sleep, helping you better understand your sleep patterns. It's one of the most accurate we've tested and the battery lasts four to five days without charging. The app is more in-depth than just about any of the trackers I tested. If you're interested in the nitty gritty of how your body sleeps and responds to strain, I can't recommend the Whoop enough.I have to admit it's pretty expensive and I didn't love that there isn't a watch face on the strap. That said, the data and accuracy of Whoop make it the best sleep tracker you can get.Pros:Personalized recommendations based on your sleep dataProvides reliable sleep dataRemovable battery pack allows you to charge from your wristNo distracting screenCons: Chunky design can be uncomfortable to sleep withNo screen for those who want oneExpensive subscription plan12-month minimum commitment Additional details: Wearable: YesMetrics measured: HRV, resting heart rate, recovery, respiratory rate, blood oxygen, body temperature, exercise and sleep performance Trial: One monthWarranty: LifetimeSubscription: $30 monthly (12-month commitment), $199 family membership, $239 upfront for 12 months or $399 for 24 monthsPrice: $$$
$239 at Amazon
Caroline Igo/CNET
Oura Ring Gen4
Best wearable sleep tracker
$349 at Amazon
$349 at Oura
Our take: Oura Ring is an alluring, comfortable option for those who want convenient health and sleep monitoring without the discomfort of a bulky wrist wearable. Especially if you need a high-tech, lightweight device to fit into your existing wardrobe, Oura’s sleek design is snug and available in six finishes. In addition to providing overall sleep readings, Oura Ring is a great option for those who want insights into other aspects of health like stress, menstrual cycles and illness monitoring.The review: I wear my Oura Ring every day, and I often forget I even have it on. It’s become a part of my daily routine. I wake up and check my sleep score, my readiness score for the day and cycle insights. I love that it automatically tracks activity and can be integrated with apps like Apple Health, Strava and Google Fit. It has excellent battery life -- Oura claims it lasts up to seven days but I’ve found it's more like five to six days, which is still great. Over time, the Oura Ring gets to know your body and provides highly accurate insights and customized reports to help you understand your overall health and well-being. Pros:Comfortable, sleek ring design Longer battery life compared to watch trackersSleep score makes understanding sleep quality easyPersonalized health data and recommendations Comes in sizes 4 to 15Cons:$6 monthly subscription is required for most featuresDepending on the finger and hand you wear it on, the ring can easily get scratchedDoesn’t have snore detection Additional details: Wearable: YesMetrics measured: HRV, resting heart rate, respiratory rate, blood oxygen level, body temperature, stress, activity, menstrual cycle and sleep performanceTrial: One month Warranty: 1-year warrantySubscription: $6 per monthPrice: $$$
$349 at Amazon
$349 at Oura
Caroline Igo/CNET
Samsung Galaxy Ring
Best sleep tracker for Android users
$400 at Samsung
Our take: The Samsung Galaxy Ring is for Android users who want to consolidate their devices, track their sleep and manage their health vitals on their finger. For snore detection, the Galaxy Ring is a better option than Oura (which doesn’t have this feature). It is also great for those who want a device to automatically track workouts, activities and other health metrics such as heart rate, blood oxygen and temperature. The review: I found the Samsung Galaxy Ring to be just as great as Oura. The Galaxy Ring tracker measures all the same vitals as Oura, except for HRV. The Samsung ring has extra features such as snore detection and gesture compatibility. My favorite aspect of this ring is that it’s slightly lighter and thinner than Oura. I also loved that all the time I was wearing it, it never scratched once. Its charging case is beautifully designed and opens and closes for easy storage. The price is higher than Oura but Samsung lets you trade in devices to bring the price down. Pros: Comfortable, sleek and concave ring design No subscription requiredExtra features when connected with a Galaxy phoneSlightly thinner and lighter than Oura Cons: Need a newer Galaxy phone to access all featuresNot compatible with Apple devicesDoesn’t track HRV Additional details: Wearable: YesMetrics measured:  Heart rate, snoring, energy, blood oxygen, stress, skin temperature, menstrual cycle, activity and sleep performance Trial: 15 daysWarranty: 1-year warrantySubscription: NonePrice: $$$
$400 at Samsung
Taylor Leamey/CNET
Fitbit Inspire 3
Best tracker watch
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
Our take: The Fitbit Inspire 3 is a great sleep tracker for someone who wants to measure physical activity and sleep data without a bulky device on their wrist. This Fitbit’s sleek design, small digital screen and impressive battery life of up to 10 days is available for only $100 -- by far one of the most affordable sleep trackers. It is best for those who want to measure heart rate, blood oxygen levels, time spent in different sleep stages and overall sleep quality at night, and for those who want to track steps, workouts, calories burned and more during the day. The review: “I’ve had several Fitbit smartwatches through the years, though the Inspire 3 is by far my favorite. It’s got all the features you want but is way less clunky,” said sleep writer Taylor Leamey. The app is user-friendly and easy to navigate. You won't get any advanced insights but the Fitbit is a dependable option for those starting their sleep-tracking journey. I also appreciate that the Fitbit Inspire 3 provides a daily stress management score and offers mindfulness sessions that teach healthier ways to respond to stress. You also can't beat the price. You don't have to pay for the $10 per month subscription to use the sleep and workout tracking features, but you will need the subscription to access more advanced offerings such as workout classes, mindfulness sessions, recipes and more. For me, Fitbit is a classic option for people who want a straightforward tracker. Not to mention, Fitbit has several watch options in its lineup.Pros:Simple, slim design Long battery lifeAffordable price for Fitbit features Cons:Light from screen may be distractingNo buttons that release the bandsAdvanced features require a subscriptionAdditional details: Wearable: YesMetrics measured: Respiration rate, heart rate, HRV, body temperature, menstrual cycle, stress, sleep stages and blood oxygen levels Trial: 6 monthsWarranty: 1-year warranty Subscription: Not necessary, $10 per month or $80 per year for premium featuresPrice: $
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
Caroline Igo/CNET
Garmin Forerunner 165
Best sleep tracker for sleep and fitness
$234 at Amazon
$250 at Garmin
$247 at Best Buy
Our take: The Garmin Forerunner 165 will be enjoyed by runners like me who require GPS to track their runs and who want insights into their sleep and recovery. With Sleep Coach, sleep score and nap detection features, Garmin tracks sleep cycles, duration, HRV, restless moments, resting heart rate and respiration rates. These metrics apply to its recovery feature, which lets me know how long I should rest between workouts. This Garmin tracker is best for those serious about their sleep and fitness.   The review: As a runner myself, I used my Garmin to train for a half marathon. It recommends workouts, slow days and amount of rest based on my vitals and restorative sleep from the night before. The watch itself is a bit bulky to sleep with but it’s something I got used to (however, I do prefer a ring tracker at night). Garmin claims the battery life is about 11 days but I use the watch every day and found it was more like 8 days. I really like its daily sleep and body battery scores and I found it to be one of the most accurate in tracking my total hours of sleep. Pros: Features include sleep score, Sleep Coach and a breakdown of sleep qualityAutomatically tracks naps and recommends an amount of sleep for the nightBattery lasts up to 11 daysCons: Doesn't take into account gender and hormone cycles when recommending amount of sleepMight not be for those looking for only sleep-tracking featuresAdditional details: Wearable: YesMetrics measured: HRV, heart rate, respiratory rate, body battery, stress, activity, menstrual cycle, naps, restless movements and sleep performanceTrial: 30 daysWarranty: One-year warrantySubscription: NonePrice: $$
$234 at Amazon
$250 at Garmin
$247 at Best Buy
Caroline Igo/CNET
Withings Scan Watch 2
Best sleep tracker without a subscription
$350 at Withings
$338 at Amazon
$370 at Best Buy
Our take: The Withings Scan Watch 2 is a high-quality sleep tracker for those who don’t want to pay a subscription on top of a pricey device. I appreciate that it has a thinner, more traditional watch look. The clock’s face is conventional with a tiny screen that can display the digital time, date, steps and other health vitals. This watch is for sleepers who don’t want a distracting LED screen at night but want to check some vitals without opening the app on a phone. The review: I enjoy the look and feel of the Withings Scan Watch 2. It is unlike any other smartwatch that I have tested. Its smooth and streamlined design makes it comfortable to wear during the day and use during the night. I find its app to be user-friendly, simple and more appealing than most. Its sleep-tracking features are similar to other smartwatches on the market, but there are other in-depth health metrics, such as ECG measurements, AFib detection and body temperature during workouts. While this sleep tracker is a bit pricey, I find it worth it for the extra health features. Pros: Sleek design, similar to classic watches rather than smartwatchesVery small screen that doesn’t bother you during the night30-day battery lifeCons: Premium wristbands are an extra chargeMore expensive than other smartwatchesNotifications are sometimes hard to read on the screenAdditional details: Wearable: YesMetrics measured: HRV (coming soon), heart rate, AFib detection, respiratory rate (coming soon), breathing disturbances, blood oxygen, temperature, snoring, activity, menstrual cycle and sleep qualityTrial: 60 daysWarranty: Two-year warrantySubscription: Not necessary, $9.95 per month or $99.50 per year for premium featuresPrice: $$$
$350 at Withings
$338 at Amazon
$370 at Best Buy
Editors' choice
Caroline Igo/CNET
Eight Sleep Pod 3 Cover
Best mattress cover sleep tracker
$2,295 at Eight Sleep
Wearable YesMetrics measured HRV, heart rate, respiratory rate, snoring and sleep quality and sleep performanceTrial 30 nightsWarranty Two-year warranty (Standard) or five-year warranty (Enhanced)Subscription $17 per month (Standard), $25 per month (Enhanced)Price $$$$$+ Our take: The Eight Sleep Pod 3 Cover is great for hot sleepers like me who are serious about their sleep. You also need to have the budget for a pricey, luxury device. This mattress cover fits over a bed like a fitted sheet and contains a system of wires that pumps water throughout the cover. When testing, I found that it heats and cools sleepers to mimic my body’s natural temperature cycles during sleep. This high-tech product is best for those who want a nonwearable sleep tracker to help with night sweats and measure sleep stages, overall sleep quality, heart rate, HRV, breathing rate and snoring. The review: I can’t sleep without the Eight Sleep Pod 3 Cover. Its ability to heat and cool me throughout the night is unmatched. By detecting my heart rate, breathing, movement and sleep stages, it gives detailed reports in the morning on my sleep quality. It's great for temperature control, though the data can be a little wonky. I've found that my sleep scores are higher than they should be sometimes. I think sometimes it thinks I’m asleep when I’m really awake (or when my pets are in my bed). On top of that, its high price is a huge drawback. It’s for those who are significantly interested in sleep. Pros: Cooling features help hot sleepers from sweating Non-invasive way to track your sleep Autopilot automatically heats and cools to mimic natural sleep stagesCons: Very, very expensive Mattress cover changes the feel of your mattressAdditional details: Wearable: NoMetrics measured: HRV, heart rate, respiratory rate, snoring and sleep quality and sleep performanceTrial: 30 daysWarranty: Two-year warranty (Standard) or five-year warranty (Enhanced)Subscription: $17 per month (Standard), $25 per month (Enhanced)Price: $$$$$+
$2,295 at Eight Sleep
Caroline Igo/CNET
Withings Sleep Tracking Mat
Best non-wearable sleep tracker
$150 at Amazon
$152 at Best Buy
$200 at Withings
Our take: If you would rather not wear a sleep tracker to bed and an Eight Sleep mattress cover is outside your budget, you may enjoy the Withings Sleep Tracking Mat. This thin mat fits underneath my mattress and I didn't even know it was there. It has pneumatic and sound sensors that measure my heart rate, respiratory rate, movements, snoring and sleep cycles. It's important to note that the Withings Sleep Tracking Mat is powered through a USB cable and must be plugged in.The review: I like easily viewing my sleep data in the free Withings app through its Wi-Fi sync. The app also automatically generates a sleep diary that includes my sleep score each night. As for its tracking abilities, I did find that the Tracking Mat often picked up my dog sleeping near my pillow before I even got into bed. Keep this in mind if you sleep with a partner or a pet. I also often got higher readings with the Sleep Mat compared to other wearable sleep trackers. Devices that go on your fingers are wrists are going to be a bit more accurate but the price and ease of this Sleep Mat can’t be beat. Pros: Automatically compiles your data into a sleep diary Noninvasive way to track sleepIt can turn off lights automatically when you get into bed  Cons: If you sleep with another person, there is a chance it could pick up their movementsYou need to have an outlet nearby to plug it inMay record awake periods in bed as light sleepAdditional details: Wearable: NoMetrics measured: Snoring, heart and respiratory rate, movements and sleep qualityTrial: 30 nightsWarranty: Two-year warrantySubscription: NonePrice: $
$150 at Amazon
$152 at Best Buy
$200 at Withings
How we tested the best sleep trackers
Caroline Igo/CNETI've been testing and assessing sleep products for years alongside CNET's sleep team. From mattresses to bedding to sleep accessories, I know which products are worth writing home about. I tested each sleep tracker on this list for a minimum of two weeks to get a full picture of how it performed. In the case of some devices, such as the Whoop, Oura or Eight Sleep, some of our experts (like myself) wear and use these every day. The selected sleep trackers were also chosen based on comfort, accessibility, metrics measured, accuracy, battery life and the supporting app.    Our sleep experts have also tested the TempurPedic Tempur-Ergo Smart Base, Oxa Breathing Coach, Eight Sleep Pod 4, Apple Watch SE, Garmin Forerunner 45S and the Garmin Forerunner 965. These products didn’t make our list because of poor sleep-tracking performance or because they were beaten out by other models. In the case of Garmin, both watches mentioned have great sleep tracking capabilities but the price and extra features of the Garmin Forerunner 165 topped the other two models. The same can be said for the newest Eight Sleep Pod 4 -- the older Pod 3 version has similar features for a better price. What to consider when shopping for a sleep trackerThe sleep tracker market has a lot of variety to choose from -- which can be overwhelming if you aren't sure where to start. Before you begin shopping for a sleep tracker, keep these features in mind.TypeBefore shopping, you should decide what type of sleep tracker is most appealing. There are lots of sleep tracker watches, but some may find them too uncomfortable to sleep with. There are also smart rings, smart mattress covers and mats that go under your bed. Additional featuresDetermining what you expect from your sleep tracker will help you narrow down your options; maybe you want a device with a screen that alerts you of your texts or you want one that fits into your wardrobe. If you want a sleep tracker that also tracks your fitness and activity, choose something like the Oura Ring 3 or Fitbit Inspire. If you are a runner who needs GPS to track your miles, then the Garmin Forerunner 165 is a great option. If you are interested in a device that tracks other health vitals and metrics in addition to its sleep-tracking features, look for a wearable that measures blood oxygen levels, heart rate, HRV, respiratory rate, temperature and other valuable health data.AccuracyAnother crucial factor when choosing a sleep tracker is its accuracy. No current device on the market is as accurate as an in-office sleep study with a doctor (a test that measures brain activity and wave patterns). Trackers with heart rate and blood-oxygen level sensors are the most reliable. PriceThe price range for sleep tracker devices varies so determining your budget first will help you narrow down your best options. It's also important to factor in the monthly or yearly subscriptions that some sleep tracker devices require. Oura has the lowest at $6 per month but Withings and Fitbit do not require subscriptions. Eight Sleep is already extremely pricey and requires a $17 or $25 subscription per month, depending on your membership. Battery lifeBattery life and charging are other factors you should consider. A sleep-tracking product that requires being charged daily or nightly can be unmanageable or unrealistic for some people. If you need a sleep tracker with a long battery life, the Withings Scan Watch 2 can go for about 30 days between charges. If you're looking at a sleep tracker that requires an outlet, such as the Withings Sleep Tracking Mat or the Eight Sleep Pod 3 Cover, that's something to consider if you don't have one easily accessible near your bed.
Best sleep tracker FAQs
Which sleep tracker is the most accurate?
I found that wearable sleep trackers are more accurate than trackers that go over or under the bed. I attribute this to the fact that wearables have better contact with your skin to measure heart rate and breathing rate. Bed trackers like Eight Sleep or the Withings Sleep Mat sometimes picked up my dogs sleeping on my bed rather than just me. I found that top sleep trackers like Whoop, Fitbit and Oura Ring are a tad more accurate.
How accurate is the Oura ring?
In an experiment where I tested Oura, Garmin and Eight Sleep consistently for a month, I found that Oura, on average, gave me the lowest sleep scores of the three. Garmin’s readings matched my perceived hours of sleep and wake periods a little more. I don’t have the right equipment to state which wearable is most accurate (a standardized, doctor-given sleep test is the most reliable), but Oura is still a great sleep tracker. It is, by far, the most comfortable to sleep with.
Are sleep trackers worth it?
Yes, sleep trackers can be worth it if you want to look into your sleep quality, performance and habits. Based on your budget and preference, you can find a sleep tracker that works for you. The best sleep trackers include watches, rings and those that go over or under your mattress.
What metrics should I look for when tracking sleep?
Time spent in deep sleep and REMSleep duration and qualityHeart rate (and heart rate variability)Blood-oxygen levelsRespiration rateSnoringTemperatureMovement
What is the best non-wearable sleep tracker?
If you want to track your sleep without worrying about wearing a watch or ring, the
is the best non-wearable sleep tracker. The thin mat goes under your mattress and uses pneumatic and sound sensors to measure your heart rate, movements and other tracking metrics.
What's the best sleep tracker without a monthly fee?
According to CNET's experts, the Withings Scan Watch 2 is a top choice for those who want quality sleep-tracking analytics without paying a subscription fee. The sleep tracker's thinner, more traditional watch look is an added benefit.
Can the Apple Watch detect sleep apnea?
Supported models such as Apple Watch Series 9, Series 10 and Ultra 2 can be worn to bed to track breathing disturbances during sleep. This data is analyzed using an algorithm to detect signs of moderate to severe sleep apnea. If elevated disturbances are detected frequently during a 30-day period, the Apple Watch will send you a notification suggesting possible sleep apnea.
How accurate is the Apple Watch sleep tracking?
The Apple Watch is widely seen as a fairly accurate sleep tracker but it's known to have some limitations. For example, the fitness tracker might struggle to distinguish between sleep stages or provide sufficient data on the quality of sleep.
Does the Oura Ring have a monthly fee?
Yes, the Oura Ring has a monthly subscription fee that will run you $6 to access the full range of features and data insights.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.