Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Welcome to our Coupons Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy updated August 6, 2020
This website is your online destination for products, recommendations, deals, and discounts. Here, you can find quick access to coupons, promo codes and other ways to save from some of the biggest retailers. When you shop or make a purchase through this site, we receive a commission for connecting you with the retailer.
This Privacy Policy (“the Policy”) describes the information we collect, how we use your information, and who we share it with. This is important, so please take the time to read this Policy.
This Privacy Policy applies to visitors to the following website: https://coupons.businessinsider.com (“Website”).
The Policy does not apply to the other websites connected directly or indirectly with this Website, which may have their own privacy policies.
1. Who We Are
Global Savings Group (“GSG”) operates this Website in partnership with Business Insider in order to provide visitors to the Website (“Website Visitors”) like you access to coupons and promotions for products sold elsewhere online.
2. The Information We Collect
We receive both information that is directly provided to us, such as personal information you provide when you visit the Website, and information that is automatically collected from you, such as information collected from your browser or device.
2.1 Information You Provide to Us: We collect information you choose to provide to us. For example, you may choose to provide your name, email address, or other information when you contact us through the Website.
You may choose to sign up for our newsletter through the Website. Our newsletter informs you regularly about recent online saving opportunities for various product categories, such as fashion, travel, and/or electronics in connection with deals published on our Website. If you sign up for the newsletter, we may collect your email address at sign-up, as well as information about your interaction with the e-mail newsletter (e-mail opens and clicks) through tracking technology such as pixel tags and web-beacons, which are discussed in Section 4.5.
In addition, you may choose to sign up for our loyalty rewards program. If you sign up for our loyalty rewards program, we may collect your email address when you sign-up, in order to send you the reward.
2.2 Automatically Collected Technical Data: When you visit the Website, we automatically collect data about your use of the Website (“Automatically Collected Technical Data”), including: the pages on the Website you have accessed, the IP address you are using, the referrer-URL, the date and time of your visit, your browsing activity, the time, frequency, and duration of page interactions, search queries made, clicks on banners and links, the type of browser and version used to access the Website, whether you have Java and cookies enabled, the operating system used, the type of device you used, demographic information, language settings, geographic location, and other information about how you interacted with this Website.
To collect this technical data, we use cookies and similar technologies, which contain a unique identifier, consisting of a string, which enables websites to recognize devices used to access a website on each subsequent visit throughout its lifetime. These identifiers do not allow us to draw any conclusions as to your identity.
2.3 Information You Provide To Our Vendors: Our vendors help us improve your experience on the Website by providing services described in Section 4 of this Policy. As explained in Section 4, they may collect data in performing their services for us that they then may share with us.
3. How We Use and Share the Information
We may use and share the information we collect to operate the Website and run our business as described below:
3.1 To provide, customize, measure, and improve this Website;
We use the information we collect to provide, manage and improve the technical and functional aspects of the Website, to redesign the Website to be more user-friendly, and to optimize the selection of Website contents and functionalities. We also use the information we collect for internal business purposes such as troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, and research.
We do not combine Automatically Collected Technical Data with other data sources. The temporary storage of the IP address of Website Visitors is necessary for technical reasons and to ensure the security of our system, in particular relating to the recognition of misuse. We only retain such data for as long as it is necessary for the stated purposes. IP addresses will be deleted or masked after 14 days at the latest.
3.2 To process and record your redemption of promotional offers;
This Website is provided to you free of charge. We pay for this Website through commissions we receive based on your interaction with promotional offers. We use information about your visit to our Website, i.e. your decision to accept our promotional offers, for reporting purposes in order to bill and collect our commission from business partners.
3.3 To offer promotional sweepstakes;
When we offer promotional sweepstakes, we typically ask you for certain personal information in order for you to participate. This includes your name, surname, age, address, phone number, social media account, and/or email address. When you provide us this information, we will only use it to administer the sweepstakes—unless you have given your explicit consent to use such data for another purpose.
3.4 To provide you loyalty reward benefits;
3.5 To provide you with our newsletter, personalize your newsletter communications, compile reports on newsletter activities and provide other statistical and analytical services relating to the usage of the newsletter;
3.6 To respond to your inquiries;
3.7 To protect the safety of Website Visitors;
3.8 To fulfill contractual obligations in the event a merger, sale of company assets, consolidation or restructuring, financing, or acquisition of all or a portion of our business by or into another company, or to provide such information in negotiations to create such contractual obligations;
3.9 To enforce our policies and Terms of Service; and
3.10 To provide you with personalized content;
We may also use this information to tailor to your interests the content and promotional offers we may display on this Website or otherwise send to you. For this purpose, we create pseudonymised usage profiles. These usage profiles help us to better understand your needs and preferences, so we can provide you with individual and interest-based contents and promotional offers. Pseudonymous usage profiles do not allow us to draw any conclusions as to your identity, and we do not combine user profiles with data that directly identifies you (e.g., email address), unless you have explicitly allowed us to do so.
3.11 To prevent fraud or potentially illegal activities (including, without limitation, copyright infringement) on or through the Website.
4. Third-Party Services
We work with various third-party vendors to provide services through the Website to improve the user experience, to better understand how users interact with the Website, and to help provide our users content and advertising that reflects their interests.
4.1 Loyalty Rewards Program
If you sign-up for our loyalty rewards program, we may share your information with technical third party service providers with which we have entered into a contractual relationship to assist with the administration of the program. These service providers may process your email address and other personal data on our behalf and in accordance with our instructions, including to help us issuing the Rewards. Our service providers are prohibited from using this information to contact you on their behalf or to disclose the information to third parties, except as necessary to perform services on our behalf.
4.2 Newsletter
If you sign-up for our newsletter, we may share your information with technical services providers with which we have entered into a contractual relationship to help us manage newsletter subscriptions and related marketing services. These service providers may process your email address and other personal data on our behalf and in accordance with our instructions, including to help us evaluate the usage of our newsletter, personalize your newsletter communications, compile reports on newsletter activities and provide other statistical and analytical services relating to the usage of the newsletter. Our service providers are prohibited from using this information to contact you on their behalf or to disclose the information to third parties, except as necessary to perform services on our behalf..
4.3 Visitor Comments
We may offer Website Visitors the opportunity to post online comments on the Website about the coupons we offer. To help operate this commenting function on the Website, we may use third parties to integrate an online comments feature into the Website. These third parties may have access to the comments you submitted and may use the information you submit to ensure that the comment is reviewed or posted properly.
4.4 Financial Processing Services
We finance ourselves through commissions when Website Visitors use coupons offered on the Website to make online purchases. In order to be paid our commissions, we may receive information from our business partners (e.g., merchants) about online purchases made after visiting this Website, including purchases on websites of third parties (e.g., online-shops). Information about online purchases is transmitted to us automatically with the help of tracking cookies. We only receive commission-related information such as the value of your purchase and date and time of the transaction. We also work with several so-called affiliate networks (“Affiliate Networks”), which connect us with merchants and take over the technical and billing process. In these cases, we receive the respective information from such Affiliate Networks. We solely use this information for billing purposes.
4.5 Cookies, Web Beacons, and Tags and Scripts
We may use various tracking technologies to collect and process Automatically Collected Technical Data described in Section 2 of the Policy. The tracking tools we use may include cookies, Web beacons (also known as Pixel-Tags, tracking pixels, or clear GIFs), tags and scripts, and other similar technologies including local storage objects such as HTML5. When we collect information this way, we use it to better understand how Website Visitors are using the site.
When you click on a promotional offer, we may assign a unique identifier to the click (“Clickout-ID”). We provide this Clickout-ID to the respective business partner, on whose behalf the promotional offer is displayed. If you subsequently register or purchase something from that business partner (e.g., in an online-shop), the business partner can use the Clickout-ID to attribute the purchase to our Website. That is how we will earn our commission. We also work with several Affiliate Networks, which connect us with merchants and handle the technical and billing process. In these cases, we pass on the Clickout-ID to such Affiliate Networks. These Affiliate Networks may set their own tracking cookies when you visit our Website and click on an offer.
Below are a list of tracking technologies we employ, and the privacy policies of the websites that use these technologies on our Website:
Tracking Tool/Purpose of Tracking Tool/Privacy Policy
Google Analytics / Analytics & Performance / https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/
Pingdom / Analytics & Performance / https://www.pingdom.com/legal/privacy-policy
Convert / Analytics & Performance / https://www.convert.com/privacy-notice/
INFOn-line / Analytics & Performance / https://www.infonline.de/en/privacy-policy
Xiti / Analytic & Performance / https://www.atinternet.com/en/company/data-protection/data-collection-on-our-customers-sites/
Hotjar / Analytics & Performance / https://www.hotjar.com/legal/policies/privacy
Lotame Solutions, Inc. / Analytics & Performance / https://www.lotame.com/about-lotame/privacy/lotames-products-services-privacy-policy
Parse.ly / Analytics & Performance / https://www.parse.ly/privacy-policy/
Google Double Click / Functionality & Preference / https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/
Google Tag Manager / Functionality & Preference / https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/
Google AdWords / Functionality & Preference / https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/
Google Dynamic Re-marketing / Functionality & Preference / https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/
Disqus / Functionality & Preference / https://help.disqus.com/customer/portal/articles/466259-privacy-policy
YouTube / Social plug-in tracking / https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/7671399?p=privacy_guidelines&hl=en&visit_id=636834345760109772-1944843636&rd=1
GSG Tracking System / Clickout-ID / https://global-savings-group.com/privacy-policy/
BlueKai / Advertising & Targeting / https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/marketing-cloud-data-cloud-privacy-policy.html
We work with third parties that use tracking technologies on our website and on other websites in order to provide tailored advertisements and track their effectiveness. These third parties may place or recognize a unique cookie on your hard drive or use other tracking technologies. The use of third-party cookies is not covered by this Privacy Policy, as these third parties are subject to their own privacy policies. For more information about this practice and to understand your options for exercising control over cookies and other tracking technologies, please visit: https://youradchoices.com/control and https://www.networkadvertising.org/choices. In addition, most major web browsers provide users with the option to accept or reject third party cookies.
When you opt out of being tracked by these advertising networks, such networks will stop serving you targeted advertising based on the data collected via your browser, but they may continue to collect and use information for other purposes.
The specific types of cookies served through this Website, their purposes, and your options to manage them, are described in further detail in our Cookie Policy below.
If you have any questions about the use of cookies and similar technologies through this Website, please email privacy@businessinsider.com:
5. Data Retention
We retain personal information for as long as needed or permitted in light of the purpose(s) for which it was obtained and consistent with applicable law. The criteria used to determine our retention periods include:
a. The length of time we have an ongoing relationship with you and provide the Website’s services to you;
b. Whether there is a legal obligation to which we are subject (for example, certain laws require us to keep records of your transactions for a certain period of time before we can delete them); or
c. Whether retention is advisable in light of our legal position (for example, in light of applicable statutes of limitations, litigation or regulatory investigations).
6. Contacting Us
As stated above, we collect your personal information that you voluntarily disclose to us when you contact us via email or through a contact form provided on the Website for general or specific queries. Our contact form asks for you to provide us your name, email, message, and asks you to categorize the type of message from options provided from a drop-down menu. We track the IP addresses and date and time of contact for anyone who sends us a message through our online contact form.
If you have any questions or concerns about the online Privacy Policy for this Website or its implementation, or if you would like to opt out from our sharing of your personal information with unaffiliated third parties for the third parties’ direct marketing purposes, you may contact our Privacy Policy Coordinator at the following address and request that we opt you out of such sharing: coupons@businessinsider.com.
You may send an email or letter to the above email or street address requesting access to or correction of your personal information. Please provide your full name and email address when making such requests. We may ask you to provide additional information for identity verification purposes.
7. How We Respond to Do Not Track Signals
At this time, this Website does not recognize automated browser signals regarding tracking mechanisms, which may include “do not track” instructions.
8. Changes to this Privacy Policy
We may change this Policy at any time with effect for the future. The then-current version of this Policy will be made available on the Website. The most recent version date is located at the top of this Policy.
Welcome to our Coupons Cookie Policy
Cookie Policy updated November 11, 2019
Global Savings Group (“GSG”) operates this Website in partnership with Business Insider in order to provide visitors to this Website (“Website Visitors”) like you access to curated coupons and promotions for products sold elsewhere online. Please carefully read the below Cookie Policy explaining how we use cookies on our website. We may edit this Policy from time to time, so please check this Policy regularly for any changes. We also recommend you view our Privacy Policy to learn more about how we use your data, why we use your data, and what we do with your data.
By continuing your use of https://coupons.businessinsider.com (“this Website”), you signify your consent to such use of cookies. You can also change your cookie preferences at any time.
1. Cookies and Similar Technologies
This section describes the specific types of cookies served through this Website, their purposes, and your options to manage them.
Cookies: Cookies are small data files that are placed on your computer or mobile device by your browser while you are visiting a website. Usually a cookie contains the website’s name using it and a string of text or a “unique identifier” which enables websites to recognize that cookie on each subsequent visit throughout its lifetime. Cookies can collect and store a wide range of information, such as the type of browser or operating system used, language or other browser settings, or your interaction with the website. Usually cookies are not used to collect data that itself identifies an individual. However, information collected with cookies may become associated with a natural person, if it is combined with personal information.
Some cookies (called session cookies) erase their records about you when you close your browser. Other cookies (called persistent cookies) erase their records about you at some preset time, regardless of whether you close your browser. We may use both types of cookies, whether we place them directly on the site, or whether third-parties place them on the site for us. The data from these cookies is then used to enable features on the site and to help us better understand how users experience the Website.
Apart from cookies, we also use other tracking technologies.
Web beacons, embedded scripts and other similar technologies: We and our third-party partners may also use similar technologies on this Website, such as web beacons (also called Pixel-Tags, tracking pixels, clear GIFs) or scripts. Web Beacons are small graphic images (that may be embedded into websites or in HTML emails), which are usually not visible for the Website Visitor. They track the Website Visitor’s interaction with this Website or the services our vendors help us provide. For example, they help us to understand whether or not you read our content or if you clicked on the links contained within our content. An embedded script or pixel is programming code that is designed to collect information about your interactions with this Website, such as the links you click on. The code is temporarily downloaded onto your device from our web server or a third-party service provider, is active only while you are connected to the Website, and is deactivated or deleted thereafter. While you may not have the ability to specifically reject or disable these tracking technologies by your browser settings, they typically work in conjunction with cookies; accordingly, declining cookies in your browser will, in most cases, impair functioning of these technologies as well.
2. Types of Cookies served through this Website
We use first-party and third-party cookies for several reasons:
Strictly necessary cookies: These cookies are essential to provide fundamental functions of this Website, e.g., to enable you to browse this Website and use some of its features, such as access to secure areas. For instance, we use these strictly necessary cookies to embed contact forms on this Website.
Tracking Cookies: These cookies are used to track the use of promotional offers provided on this Website. They solely serve the purpose to allocate sales or other transactions to the respective offer on our Website in order to receive our commission. Tracking cookies are stored on your device until you change your cookie settings.
Functionality cookies: These cookies enable us to remember your preferences (such as your cookie choices), but are not essential to the use of the Website. Functionality cookies are stored on your device until you change your cookie settings.
Analytic and performance cookies: These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how this Website is being used, to improve user experience and fix issues on the Website quickly or to help us customize our Website and services for you in order to enhance your experience. These cookies may be placed by us or by third parties.
3. How you can control your Cookie settings
If you want to delete or disable cookies, you can do so using your browser’s settings. Most browsers currently accept cookies automatically. However, if you prefer, you can configure your browser settings in a way that no cookies are stored on your computer or to notify you before a new cookie is placed. Each browser is a little different, so please follow your browser instructions on how to manage your browser settings.
If you use different devices (e.g., smartphone, tablet, computer, etc.) please make sure that each browser on each device is adjusted to reflect your cookie preferences.
Some internet browsers may include the ability to transmit “Do Not Track” or “DNT” signals. As uniform standards for “DNT” signals have not been adopted yet, this Website does not currently process or respond to “DNT” signals.
Please note that if you fully deactivate cookies, you may be unable to use some or all features of this Website.
You do not have to accept cookies and consent can be withdrawn at any time, although you may not be able to use certain features on this Website. You can do this by activating the setting on your browser that allows you to refuse the setting of all or some cookies.
Please follow the links below to helpful information for the most popular browsers:
Microsoft Internet Explorer: https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies
Google Chrome: https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop&hl=en
Apple Safari: https://support.apple.com/guide/safari/enable-cookies-ibrw850f6c51/mac
Mozilla Firefox: https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences
In addition, you can exercise advertising cookie choices by requesting that certain advertising networks not track you, such as https://youradchoices.com/control and https://www.networkadvertising.org/choices.
Please note that such websites will contain a list of numerous participating companies, many of which we do not work with. When you opt out of being tracked by these advertising networks, such networks will stop serving you targeted advertising based on the data collected via your browser, but they may continue to collect and use information for other purposes.
If you have any questions about the use of cookies and similar technologies through this Website, please email us at: coupons@businessinsider.com.
You can also find more information about cookies at www.allaboutcookies.org
Privacy Policy Addendum for California Residents
Under the California Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”), California residents have certain rights regarding their personal information. A California resident may request access to:
the categories of personal information that we have collected, the categories of sources of personal information, and our purposes for collecting personal information;
the specific pieces of personal information that we have collected; and
the categories of third parties with which we have shared the personal information.
California residents may also request that we delete their personal information.
We do not sell personal information. You have choices about the use of cookies and other technologies. See our Cookie Policy for more information.
We will not unlawfully discriminate against you for making requests to access or delete personal information. If you are a California resident and want to make an access or deletion request, please email us at dataprivacy.us@global-savings-group.com.
Please see the table below which outlines the categories of personal information we collect, the sources of that information, and how we handle and share your information.
In addition, please note that GSG will disclose information as required by law or if any of the following applies:
When necessary to respond to lawful governmental requests or legal process (e.g., a court order, subpoena, or search warrant) or when the information is relevant to a crime that has been or is being committed;
An emergency exists that poses a threat to the safety of you or another, or where disclosure is required to protect the rights or property of GSG or its employees;
If the ownership of GSG, an affiliate or their assets changes due to a merger, acquisition, sale, or bankruptcy, information may be transferred to another company.
Categories of Information
Sources of Information
Uses of Information
Sharing of Information
Identifiers, including your name, email address, and IP address, and Clickout-ID, and the newsletter sign-up.
We collect your name and email address when you provide it to us directly.We collect your IP address automatically when you visit the site, and we generate a Clickout-ID when you click on a promotional offer.
We use your name and email information to correspond with you.We use your IP address to operate this Website and associated website functions.We use the Clickout-ID to process commissions associated with the promotional offers you click on.
We will share identifiers with our service providers to assist with our uses of the information, including corresponding with you, supporting the loyalty program, supporting our newsletter, operating and improving the website, and understanding how visitors interact with the website.
Personal information as defined by Cal. Civ. Code 1798.80, including your name and email address.
We collect your name directly from you.
We use your name and email address to correspond with you and in connection with supporting the loyalty program and our newsletter.
We will share your name with our service providers to improve the user experience, to better understand how users interact with the Website as well as the loyalty rewards program and the newsletter, and to help provide our users content and advertising that reflects their interests.
Characteristics of protected classifications, including aggregated demographic information.
We collect aggregated demographic information through Google Analytics.
We use the aggregated demographic information to improve the website.
We do not share this category of information.
Commercial information, such as information we receive to collect commissions on purchases you make.
We collect commercial information through tracking cookies and from business partners, such as merchants and Affiliate Networks.
We use commercial information in order to process the commissions associated with the online purchases you made through our promotions. We also use this information for billing purposes.
We do not share this category of information.
Biometric information.
We do not collect this category of information.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Internet or other electronic network activity information, including clickstream information about your engagement with the website and participation in features, including the email newsletter and loyalty program.We will also collect information about whether you have Java and cookies enabled, the operating system used, the type of device you used, language settings, and other information about how you interacted with this Website.
We collect this information automatically from your device by making use of cookies, Web beacons, and similar tracking technologies.
We use this information to provide, customize, measure, and improve the website and to help provide targeted online advertising.We also use this information to support email newsletter, loyalty program, and this Website.
We share this information with our third-party service providers to provide, customize, measure, and improve this email newsletter, loyalty program, and this Website.
Geolocation data (location associated with your device).
We derive this information from your IP address, which we automatically collect from your device.
We use this information to provide, customize, measure, and improve this Website.
We work with various vendors to provide services through the Website to improve the user experience, to better understand how users interact with the Website, and to help provide our users content that reflects their interests.
Audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or similar information.
We do not collect this category of information.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Professional and employment related information.
We do not collect this category of information.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Educational information.
We do not collect this category of information.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Inferences derived from personal information.
We do not collect this category of information.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Privacy Policy Addendum for EU/UK Visitors
1. Contact details of GSG
If you have questions relating to this privacy statement, if you wish to exercise any of your rights or if you have any other concerns regarding the processing of your personal data by us, please contact us by email at dataprivacy.us@global-savings-group.com and provide the details of the request that you are making, for example by specifying personal data you want access to. You can also contact us under the following contact details:
Global Savings Group North America LLC
PO Box 550354
Atlanta, GA 30355
United States
You can also contact our group commissioner for data protection (Michael Mayer) at the above provided contact details.
2. Processing activities, their respective purposes and legal basis
2.1 Access data (Log files)
With each call of this Website our servers automatically store general access data about this process in server log files.
These data include:
the called Website
the IP address of the requesting system
the type of browser and version used
the operating system used
We do not aggregate such data with other data sources. The temporary storage of the IP address in logfiles is necessary for technical reasons and to ensure the security of our system, in particular relating to the recognition of misuse.
These purposes constitute our legitimate interest according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR. We only retain such data for as long as it is necessary for the stated purposes. IP addresses will be deleted or masked after 14 days at the latest.
2.2 Other data we might collect:
We use cookies and similar technologies which contain a unique identifier, consisting of a string which enables websites to recognize devices used to access a website on each subsequent visit throughout its lifetime. These identifiers do not allow us to draw any conclusions as to your identity.
The information collected may include:
Java on / off
Cookies on / off
IP-address in a shortened form (last three digits of the IP address are deleted)
Referrer-URL (i.e. the previously visited site)
Operating system
Date and time of the visit
Your browsing activity (such as scroll positions, clicks and mouse movements)
Time and duration of page interactions
Search queries made
Clicks on banners and links
Other information about how you interacted with this Website
We may use such information for the following purposes:
to provide, customize, measure and improve this Website, its content and functionalities. This includes our use of the data to provide, manage and improve the technical and functional aspects of the Website, to design the Website more user-friendly as well as to optimise the selection of its contents and functionalities. This also includes internal business purposes such as troubleshooting, data analysis, testing and research.
to process and record your redemption of promotional offers. As we finance ourselves through commissions to provide our service free of charge to you, we may use information about your visit to our website, i.e. your click on of promotional offers for reporting purposes in order to bill and collect our commission from business partners.
to provide you with personalised content. We also use this information to tailor our content and promotional offers we may display on this Website or send to you to your interests. For this purpose we create pseudonymised usage profiles. These usage profiles help us to better understand your needs and preferences so that we can provide you with individual and interest-based contents and promotional offers. Pseudonymous usage profiles do not allow us to draw any conclusions as to your identity and we do not combine such profiles with data that directly identifies you (e.g. email address), unless you have explicitly allowed us to do so.
for Advertising and (Re-)Targeting purposes. We or more specifically the advertising partners as outlined in this addendum, also use this information in order to deliver targeted advertising on this Website or on websites of third parties which is based on your prior visit to this Website.
We consider these purposes as in our legitimate interest within the meaning of Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f) GDPR. Our users expect us to provide offers to them, which reflect their current interests.
We retain this information as long as necessary and relevant for the aforementioned purposes or until you make legitimate use of your right to object to our use of such information. Pseudonymous user profiles are stored for a maximum of 24 months.
You have the right to object at any time to the display of personalised advertising by our advertising partners via the opt-out links provided in the below section of this addendum.
2.3 Contact Data
We collect your personal data that you voluntarily disclose to us when you contact us via e-mail or through a contact form provided on the Website for general or specific queries.
The contact form may ask for the following personal data to be entered:
name
email address
message text
further details for specific queries or reports, if applicable
In addition your IP address and the date and time of contact will also be automatically stored on our servers.
The collection of this data is necessary in order to understand the (possible) misuse of the e-mail address at a later date, and it therefore serves us to prove that our process is in line with legal requirements.
Your request/enquiry will be transmitted and handled by one of our employees who is responsible for handling the topics addressed in your request/enquiry. Your data will only be used to handle your request/enquiry, e.g., to provide you with the service information you asked for, and will not be used for any other purpose, unless expressly permitted or required by applicable law. The purpose constitutes our legitimate interest according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR.
We retain the personal data you provide to us when contacting us for the duration of the respective conversation with you, but no longer than for 6 months after the conversation is closed, unless applicable laws require longer retention periods in individual cases. The conversation will be considered as closed if the circumstances indicate that all relevant facts have been clarified or if you instruct us to delete your data. All personal data which were stored in the context of your conversation with us will be deleted immediately in this case.
2.4 Information in relation to our commission
We finance ourselves through commissions, for this reason we may receive information from our business partners (e.g. merchants) about your online purchases, which you may place on the websites of third parties (e.g. online-shops) after a visit to this Website. Such information is transmitted to us automatically with the help of tracking cookies. We never receive information that can directly identify you but merely commission related information such as the value of your purchase and date and time of the transaction. We also work with several so-called affiliate networks (“Affiliate Networks”), which connect us with merchants and take over the technical and billing process. In these cases we receive the respective information from such Affiliate Networks. We solely use this information for billing purposes with our business partners. The purpose constitutes our legitimate interest according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR.
3. Use of third party tools
We allow certain third parties to use cookies or similar technologies on this Website. These third parties include analytics, advertising networks and other service providers that assist us in providing, evaluating, and improving this Website and our services and to provide targeted advertising based on your browsing activities and interests.
These third parties may use cookies or similar technologies and collect data about your use of this Website and your interaction with its content and functions, including the total number of visitors to this Website, the websites our visitors have come from, the pages you visit, date, time and duration of your visit, frequency, clicked banners/links as well as information about type of device, browser version, language settings and geographic location (including country, city, region). They may also collect online-identifiers (e.g. User-ID) and/or IP-addresses. We do not have access to these cookies or to any personal identifiable data collected with these cookies that allow us to identify single users. We may however use information arising from such cookies provided by these third parties. All data collected is made available to us only anonymously and in statistical form.
Some of the service providers are based in a country outside the EU/EEA. However, we exclusively work with companies that offer an appropriate data protection level in line with the stipulations of the GDPR. For more information please see section 4 of this addendum.
Below we will give you an overview and description of third party provider technologies we may use for this Website.
3.1. Web analytics and A/B Testing tools
We have implemented all analytic tools with activated IP anonymization, so that the last three digits of the IP address are deleted directly after the data collection and only a portion of your IP address may be used and stored on the servers of the respective service providers.
TOOL: Google Analytics
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: Google Analytics is a web analytics service provided by Google Inc., Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA (“Google”) who reports on user interactions on this website.
The information collected by Google Analytics (including the anonymized IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. According to Google only in exceptional cases the full IP address may be transmitted directly to a Google server in the USA and encrypted there. Any user-identifiers (e.g. Cookie-ID) stored by Google Analytics will automatically be deleted from Google’s´ servers after 14 months.
For further information please refer to Googles Analytics security and privacy principles: https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245?hl=en.
You can prevent the processing of your data by Google Analytics by installing the Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on available under https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. The browser add-on is available for most modern browsers.
TOOL: Pingdom
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: Pingdom is a monitoring service of Pingdom AB, Kopparbergsvägen 8, 722 13, Västerås, Sweden. With the help of this service we can analyse the loading behaviour and the availability of this Website, depending on the access location, browser and device type in order to optimise the access times.
All data collected by Pingdom on this Website (including the anonymized IP address) will be stored and processed on serves of Pingdom. For information please refer to the privacy policy of Pingdom: https://www.pingdom.com/legal/privacy-policy/.
TOOL: Covert
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: Convert is an A/B-testing software of Convert Insights, Inc., 340 South Lmon Avenue 9512 Walnut, California 91789, USA (“Convert”). The software allows us to compare two versions of a Website in order to determine which version achieves a better performance. For this purpose the users of this Website may sometimes be divided equally into two groups. The one group is shown the initial version, whereas the other is shown the new version that is to be tested. Then it is analysed which version works best.
For further information please refer to the privacy policy of Convert: https://www.convert.com/privacy-policy/.
Opt out: https://www.convert.com/opt-out/
TOOL: INFOn-Line
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: This helps us with the measurement of customer data. https://www.infonline.de/en/privacy-policy
Opt out: https://optout.ioam.de/optout.php
TOOL: Xiti
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: Xiti is a web analysis service of Applied Technologies Internet S.A., 85 avenue Président JF Kennedy 33700 MERIGNAC France (“SA Internet”).
All data collected by SA Internet on this Website (including the anonymized IP address) will be stored and processed on servers in France.
Opt out: https://www.xiti.com/en/optout.aspx
TOOL: Hotjar
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: Hotjar is a session recording and heat mapping service provided by Hotjar Ltd, Level 2, St Julians Business Centre, 3, Elia Zammit Street, St Julians STJ 1000, Malta.
For further information please refer to the privacy policy of Hotjar: https://www.hotjar.com/privacy.
Opt-out: https://www.hotjar.com/policies/do-not-track/
TOOL: Lotame Solutions, Inc.
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: Lotame's real time data management platform (DMP) enables us to collect first-party data from any source — including websites, apps, social, email, CRM, search, campaign data, and beyond — for one holistic view of our consumers, so we can deliver more relevant content, products and services, at the right time.
https://www.lotame.com/about-lotame/privacy/lotames-products-services-privacy-policy
Opt out: https://optout.crwdcntrl.net/optout?d=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.lotame.com%2Fabout-lotame%2Fprivacy%2Fopt-out%2F%2523optout-success&de=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.lotame.com%2Fabout-lotame%2Fprivacy%2Fopt-out%2F%2523optout-fail
TOOL: Parse.ly
DESCRIPTION AND OPT OUT: Parse.ly is a web analysis service of Parsely, Inc., 33 East 33rd Street, 10th Floor, New York, NY 10016, USA (“Parse.ly”).
The information generated by Parse.ly about your use of this Website (including the anonymized IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Parse.ly on servers in the United States.
For further information please refer to the privacy policy of Parse.ly: https://www.parse.ly/privacy-policy/.
Opt-out: https://srv.config.parsely.com/optout.
3.2. Advertising tools
We use third-party advertising technologies on this Website to provide you with personalized content that we believe may be of interest to you. Such third party providers may use cookies to perform these services.
You have the option to opt-out from targeted advertising provided by the third parties we work with through the designated links provided below. When you opt-out, the respective third party providers will stop serving you targeted advertising based on the data collected via your browser, but may continue to collect and use information for other purposes. The use of cookies and the related collection of information by third party providers is beyond our control. The third party provider may combine data they collect about your use of this Website with personal data they may otherwise collect or have access to.
For detailed information about what information is collected via the third-party advertising tools, how it is used and shared, please refer to their respective privacy policies, which are linked below.
TYPE OF DATA PROCESSING: Google Adwords Conversion Tracking
PURPOSE OF DATA PROCESSING: As part of our Google AdWords’ conversion tracking, Google places a cookie on your computer (“Conversion cookie”) when you click on our ads placed in Google Search or on selected Google Display Network sites. This allows Google and us to determine the total number of users who clicked on our Google ads and later visited this Website. Google only makes data collected about you available to us anonymously and in statistical form, so we cannot draw any conclusions about your identity from such data. The information is used to generate conversion statistics and to optimize our ads on Google. Conversion cookies are not used by Google for personalized ad targeting and persist for a limited time only. https://policies.google.com/privacy.
TYPE OF DATA PROCESSING: Google Dynamic-Remarketing
PURPOSE OF DATA PROCESSING: In addition we use Google’s remarketing technology which helps us to address our users also on other websites (within the Google Display Network) specifically with targeted advertising, which is based on their prior visits to this Website. https://policies.google.com/privacy.
TYPE OF DATA PROCESSING: Google Adsense
PURPOSE OF DATA PROCESSING: We use Google AdSense Advertising on our website, in order to serve ads to our users based on previous visits to our site and other sites on the Internet. The ads served will be targeted based on your previous browsing history. https://policies.google.com/privacy.
TYPE OF DATA PROCESSING: Google DoubleClick for Publishers
PURPOSE OF DATA PROCESSING: We use DoubleClick for Publishers on this Website for our Personalized Coupons (please see section 7.1). Google DoubleClick enables us and the respective retailers to provide you with vouchers based on the content of your shopping basket on the retailers website. If you have created a shopping basket but have not checked-out yet, and subsequently call this Website, information regarding your open shopping basket will be shared with Google (for example purchase value and product category). We can then offer you suitable vouchers. This service is carried out completely automatically. We do not get access to any personal identifiable information, but can only define general criteria of segmentation (such as purchase value, product category) on the basis of which certain vouchers are issued to our users.
If you have a Google Account, you may disable ad personalization through Google’s advertising settings: https://myaccount.google.com/intro/privacy#ads. You need to be signed in to Google services to do so and the settings only apply while you are signed in. Alternatively you can also disable ads personalization by installing the browser plugin available under this link: https://www.google.com/settings/ads/plugin?hl=en or by using the browser tool provided on the site of Digital Advertising Alliance: https://optout.aboutads.info/?c=2#!/.
In addition you may at any time opt-out of cookies used by Google for such purposes by changing your browser settings.
https://policies.google.com/privacy.
4. Data transfer outside of the EU
Some of these service providers are based in a country outside the EU/EEA. However, we exclusively work with companies that offer an appropriate data protection level in line with the stipulations of the GDPR. We also have appropriate agreements in place to ensure that the service providers will take all necessary measures to protect your personal data in accordance with applicable requirements.
The data transmission to service providers in the USA is carried out on the basis on so-called “standard contractual clauses” of the EU-Commission. The standard contract clauses of the EU-Commission concerns a contract, in which the service provider is obligated to protect personal data, in line with the contractual regulations to process these at our order and in particular not to forward these to third parties. A free copy of the standard contract clauses will be provided to you upon request.
5. Your rights under the GDPR
5.1 Right to withdraw consent pursuant to art. 7 GDPR
If you have given us your consent to process your data but change your mind later, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time by sending an email or written letter to our contact address as stated below. We will stop processing your data accordingly.
5.2 Right of access pursuant to Art. 15 GDPR
You have the right to obtain confirmation from us as to whether or not any personal data concerning your person is being processed by us and, if this is the case, you shall have the right to access your information pursuant to Art. 15 GDPR. However with regard to pseudonymised usage profiles created by us we are not able to allocate these to individual persons. Accordingly, we cannot provide any information relating to these data, unless you provide us with information, which enables us to allocate such data to your person. We will point this out to you in case of an inquiry.
5.3 Right to rectification pursuant to Art. 16
You have the right to request us to rectify any inaccurate or incomplete personal data we hold about you.
5.4 Right to erasure pursuant to Art. 17 GDPR
You have the right to obtain the erasure of your personal data we hold about you, if we do not have a legal reason to continue to process and hold it.
5.5 Right to restrict processing pursuant to Art. 18 GDPR
You have the right to ask us to restrict how we process your data subject to Art. 18 GDPR. In this case we will be permitted to store the data but not further process it.
5.6 Right to data portability pursuant to Art. 20 GDPR
You are entitled to receive personal data that you have provided to us with your consent in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format or – if technically feasible – to demand that we transfer those data to a third party.
5.7 Right to object to data processing pursuant to Art. 21 GDPR
Under the requirements of Art. 21 GDPR you have the right to object to the processing of your personal data at any time on grounds relating to your particular situation (e.g. a possible risk to life or health). The aforementioned general right to object applies to all processing purposes described in this privacy policy, which are based on the legal basis of legitimate interest. In the event you make legitimate use of such right, we will no longer process your personal data, unless we demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for the processing, which override your interests, rights and freedoms or for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims.
As far as your personal data is processed for direct marketing purposes you may object to this at any time without giving reasons. In order to object to the display of personalised advertising by our advertising partners, please use the opt-out links provided under this privacy policy.
5.8 Right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority
You have the right to lodge a complaint with the competent supervisory authority if you feel that the processing of your data is carried out by us by breaching applicable law. You can in particular reach out to the supervisory authority which is responsible at your place of residence or to the supervisory authority responsible for us.
The lead supervisory authority that is responsible for our Group is:
Bayerisches Landesamt für Datenschutzaufsicht (BayLDA)
[Bavarian Data Protection Authority]
Promenade 27
91522 Ansbach
Phone: +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax: +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
Email: poststelle@lda.bayern.de
6. Recipients of personal data
We only disclose your personal data to third parties, if this is necessary for the purpose of providing this Website and services, we are obligated or entitled here to by contract or law or you have granted your explicit consent.
6.1 Business partners
When you click on a promotional offer we may assign a unique identifier to this click (“Clickout-ID”), and provide this Clickout-ID to the respective business partner, on whose behalf the promotional offer is displayed. If you subsequently register or purchase something on the website of our business partner (e.g. in an online-shop), our business partner will be able to identify you as having come from our Website and we will earn our commission. We also work with several Affiliate Networks, which connect us with merchants and offer to take over the technical and billing process. In these cases we pass on the Clickout-ID to such Affiliate Networks. These Affiliate Networks may set their own tracking cookies when you visit our Website and click on an offer (e.g. on a voucher).
6.2 Service providers
We also work with technical service providers, who may have access to your personal data, but only to the extent necessary to perform their respective services. For instance we engage technical service providers to manage our Newsletter or to host or surveys. These service providers may not disclose your personal data to third parties or use these for any other purposes than instructed.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.