This niche Steam title with 93% positive reviews is free to keep, but only if you're very quick
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This niche Steam title with 93% positive reviews is free to keep, but only if you're very quick
Image Credit: Eta Prime
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 17, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
UPDATE: 2025/09/17 19:53 EST BY SIMON BATT
Press Any Button returns to normal pricing
Press Any Button's free window has now expired, but you can still grab it from the link before for just $2.
Free giveaways on Steam can come in all shapes and sizes. Sometimes they'll be free to claim for a week, and sometimes they'll only go on a 100% discount for 24 hours. As such, if you want to snag some free games, it's always good to keep your eyes peeled for them. Well, if you're feeling fast, you can pick up a little-known yet well-received game for absolutely nothing. Press Any Button is now free to claim, but you have until 12 pm EST on September 17th to claim it before it's back to full price.
Press Any Button is free, if you're fast
On Steam, Press Any Button is now free to claim for 24 hours. It was released in January 2021, and since then, it has garnered 193 reviews, with 93% of them being positive. So, it's clearly doing something right. Here's how the developers describe the game:
PRESS ANY BUTTON is an arcade-style game. It has a big emphasis on story, but it will also put your reflexes to a test!
The game introduces a weird but sweet character named A-Eye. He is an artificial intelligence created to process data for important scientific research. When he gets bored with this assignment, he decides to turn the research into a video game. The fact that he can't draw game assets or compose music and knows nothing about game design is not going to stop him.
A-Eye will be extremely glad if you become an impartial critic for him. Make your own opinion on the game he's been working on and find out his story full of life, death, rain, and dandelions.
The developers also claim that the game will last approximately an hour. If you want to give it a go, head over to the Press Any Button Steam page and claim it before time runs out. And if you missed out on the deal, the game is only $2, so it's still worth grabbing if you like the sound of it.
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 15, 2025
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
Sep 15, 2025
3 reasons why I switched back to a flat monitor after using a curved one
Sep 16, 2025
I led a party of AI models through a deadly D&D dungeon, and this one survived the longest
Sep 17, 2025
Microsoft really, really wants you to use the new Outlook client already
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
30 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 systemd tweaks that really boost my boot time
Netdata is an open source dashboard that shows all my servers and services in one place
My new note-taking system uses AI, a plain text editor, and a single folder
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.