Beautyrest Mattress Reviews 2024 - Our Honest Review - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Beautyrest Mattress Review: Details on the Top Brand's Lineup Wondering which Beautyrest mattress is right for you? We've uncovered the details so you can make the best decision for your sleep.
Written by
McKenzie Dillon
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Apr 5, 2025
McKenzie Dillon Writer McKenzie, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been writing sleep content in the wellness space for over four years. After earning her certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, she has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest.
Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, McKenzie has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. McKenzie has also been a guest on multiple radio shows including WGN Chicago as a sleep expert and contributed sleep advice to over 50 different websites. Expertise Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach, Bachelor of English.
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$699 at Beautyrest
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$699
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$699 at Beautyrest
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on April 5, 2025 at 6:08 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
McKenzie Dillon
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
McKenzie Dillon Writer McKenzie, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been writing sleep content in the wellness space for over four years. After earning her certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, she has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest.
Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, McKenzie has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. McKenzie has also been a guest on multiple radio shows including WGN Chicago as a sleep expert and contributed sleep advice to over 50 different websites. Expertise Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach, Bachelor of English.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 8.5 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Combo sleeper
Side sleeper
Score Breakdown
Performance
8.0
/10
Policies
6
/10
Durability
7
/10
Features
7
/10
Pros and Cons
Pros
Both premium and affordable beds
Strong hybrid constructions
Free white-glove delivery and old mattress removal
Accommodates all body types and sleeping positions
Cons
Premium beds are pricey
Shorter warranty and home trial than luxury bed-in-a-box brands
Table of Contents
Beautyrest Mattress Review: Details on the Top Brand's Lineup
First impressions of Beautyrest mattresses
Beautyrest mattress feel and firmness levels
Beautyrest mattress constructions
Beautyrest mattress performance
Who should sleep on a Beautyrest mattress?
Beautyrest mattress prices
Trial, warranty and shipping
Final verdict on the Beautyrest mattresses
How does Beautyrest compare to other mattress brands?
Beautyrest mattress FAQ
According to a CNET survey, 46% of US adults are willing to invest in a better sleep setup. If that's you, and you're looking for a high-quality, comfortable and durable bed, then we've got you covered.Beautyrest is known for its mattresses that provide ample support for all kinds of sleepers. Premium options like memory foam, gel-infused layers and individually wrapped coils (specifically designed to enhance sleep quality and regulate your temperature) are available.Of course, if you don't have the budget for one Beautyrest's premium mattresses, don't worry. The brand also offers more affordable mattresses that shouldn't be ignored, as they're also designed with comfort in mind. So, whether you sleep on your stomach, side or back, you're sure to find a mattress that suits your needs.
The pillow-top model from the Beautyrest Black collection. BeautyrestFirst impressions of Beautyrest mattresses
Black Collection: The Beautyrest Black Collection is made up of two premium mattresses made with premium materials like silk, cashmere and comfortable Beautyrest foams. These are thick mattresses with individually wrapped coils. The Black model has a light and airy pillow top, while the Black Hybrid has a memory foam topper and cooling technology. Harmony Collection: The Harmony collection includes three mattresses. The Harmony is an entry-level mattress with a competitive price comparable to similar hybrid beds. Then there's the Harmony Lux and Harmony Lux Hybrid, more premium models with extra support and enhanced cooling technology. The major difference between these two is the pillow top options; quilted or memory foam. Pressure Smart Collection: The previous two collections are the brand's bread and butter and will be the primary focus of this Beautyrest mattress review, but the Pressure Smart Collection includes the Pressure Smart mattress. It's a cooling mattress available in two different profiles (standard and hybrid), and it retails for a very affordable price. The standard is even less expensive than popular foam mattresses like the Casper Original and the Nectar, but it's made with strong individually wrapped coils. Designer Collection: This collection is a collaboration between Beautyrest and renowned interior designer Nate Berkus. It includes a premium hybrid mattress and different bedding accessories, including a mattress protector and a luxurious down pillow. Read more: Best Mattress of 2025Beautyrest mattress feel and firmness levels
Beautyrest Harmony Lux mattress Wes Ott/CNETHow firm are the Beautyrest mattresses? Beautyrest mattresses come in a range of firmness levels, from plush to firm, and with or without a pillow top. Ultra Plush Beautyrest mattress models will primarily be for side sleepers or petite folks who need the softest of the soft. It's rated around a 1-2 on the firmness scale out of 10. Plush Beautyrest mattress models are still on the soft end of the spectrum, around 3-4. Soft mattresses from Beautyrest will be best for side sleepers, and petite combination sleepers under 230 pounds.Medium Beautyrest mattress models should fall around a five on the spectrum, accommodating all sleeping positions. Firm Beautyrest mattress models should fall around a 6-7 on the firmness scale, making them best for heavier combination sleepers over 230 pounds, back and stomach sleepers. Extra Firm Beautyrest mattress models are the firmest profiles you can get. I recommend this model primarily to heavy back and stomach sleepers. If you're under 230 pounds, you may find this model a little too firm. What does a Beautryest mattress feel like?
Beautyrest Black mattress Jon Gomez/CNETThe feel of your Beautyrest mattress will depend on the model you choose. Pillow-top mattresses feel more light and airy and respond quickly to pressure. The models within each collection with the word "Hybrid" in their name are designed with extra memory foam, giving those mattresses a prominent hugging and contouring feel. Memory foam beds feel like the top comfort layer is giving you a hug as it molds around the curves of your body. If you opt for a Beautyrest mattress that comes without a pillow top, you'll get more of a blended foam feel. You get the pressure-relieving benefits of memory foam, but it's also more responsive to pressure than traditional foam. Beautyrest mattress constructionsBlack Collection
A look at the inside of the Beautyrest Black Premiere L-Class mattress.  BeautyrestQuilted Black Premier L-Class in Medium: 13.5 inches thickBlackICE cover with plant-based technology1.25 inches of AirFeel Foam0.75 inch of SurfaceTouch gel memory foam1 inch of Beautyrest memory foam1 inch of GelTouch Foam Thick T3 zoned individually wrapped coilsAlso available in Firm, Medium Pillow Top and Plush Pillow Top. Construction differs slightly based on the model you choose. Quilted Black Enhanced C-Class in Medium: 13.75 inches thickBlackICE cover with plant-based technology0.75 inch of SurfaceTouch gel memory foam0.5 inch of Firm foam0.5 inch of Self Response latex foam1 inch of comfort Layer made with alpaca, cashmere and silk fibers2 inches of GelTouch FoamThick T3 zoned individually wrapped coilsWhat stands out most is the extra inch of alpaca, cashmere of silk fibers for a more luxurious and plush feel. Also available in Firm, Plush, Medium Pillow Top and Plush Pillow Top. Quilted Black Exceptional K-Class in Plush Pillow Top: 16.5 inches thickBlackICE cover with plant-based technology1.25 inches of AirFeel foam0.75-inch layer of SurfaceTouch gel memory foam3-inch layer of AirCool memory foam0.5-inch layer of Self Response latex foam1-inch comfort Layer made with alpaca, cashmere and silk fibersThick T3 zoned individually wrapped coilsExtra layer of 2k Nano CoilsThe main difference between the K-Class model and the others is its layer of micro coils for additional support and extra memory foam, also available in Firm Pillow Top. The Beautyrest Black Hybrid models use many of the same materials as the quilted black collection, but its T3 individually wrapped coil systems are slightly more advanced and include a memory foam top for a more nestling, hugging feel. There are no pillow top options here -- your topper is memory foam.Harmony Collection
The construction of Beautyrest's Harmony Cayman mattress in Plush.  BeautyrestBeautyrest Harmony Cayman Plush: 13.5 inches thickNaturalCool cover1.25 inch of AirFeel Foam1 inch of AirCool Foam0.5 inch of Beautyrest's Charcoal memory foam1 inch soft comfort foamT1 individually wrapped coil systemThis is the brand's most affordable, entry-level mattress. It's also available in an Extra-Firm profile. Beautyrest Harmony Lux Carbon Medium: 13.75 inches thickInfiniCool Lux cover1.25 inch of AirFeel Foam1 inch of RightTemp Wave Foam0.5 inch of Beautyrest gel memory foam1.5 inch of medium-firmness comfort foamT2 individually wrapped coil systemThe main difference between this and the base Harmony Beautyrest mattress is the Lux model has an upgraded individually wrapped coil system and enhanced cooling technology. More firmness options are available, and you can also upgrade to the Diamond model. It's similar to the Carbon model, but it has advanced cooling technology and increased pressure relief. Beautyrest Harmony Lux Hybrid Empress Firm: 13.5 inches thickInfiniCool Plus cooling cover2-inch layer of Beautyrest gel memory foam2-inch medium-firmness comfort foam layerT2 individually wrapped coil systemThis is the model to choose if you're looking for a prominent memory foam feel. Rather than a quilted top, the main comfort layer is hugging, contouring memory foam. It's also on the firm end of the spectrum, making it best for back and stomach sleepers.
BeautyrestBeautyrest mattress performance
Testing edge support on the Beautyrest Harmony Lux mattress. Jon Gomez/CNETMotion isolationBeautyrest mattresses are all premium beds and will be good at isolating motion across the mattress. The best ones will be the Beautyrest Hybrid models, like Beautyrest Black Hybrid, because they have memory foam top layers that are notoriously good at absorbing motion.Edge supportThe perimeter of your mattress should be sturdy enough to make you feel supported while you're lying or sitting on it. The Beautyrest mattresses are made with steel individually wrapped coils, making the beds sufficiently supportive all the way around. DurabilityHybrid mattresses that utilize both foam and steel coils tend to be more durable and last around eight to 12 years, depending on how well you take care of your mattress. You can expect the shelf life of a Beautyrest mattress to fall within that range thanks to its durable, supportive constructions.Off-gassing All Beautyrest mattresses are hand-delivered to you via white glove delivery. There's no unboxing or unrolling needed like bed-in-a-box mattresses. This means your mattress will not omit an off-gassing smell when you receive it. This is one perk of buying from a luxury brand, as they typically offer a white glove delivery service. Who should sleep on a Beautyrest mattress?Position
Soft beds are typically best for side sleepers because they provide more contour underneath shoulder and hip pressure points.  CNETSide sleepers should opt for Beautyrest mattresses that offer firmness levels in between Ultra Plush and Medium. Smaller side sleepers under 150 pounds may like the Ultra Soft model, but most other side sleepers will appreciate Plush and Medium for the extra supportiveness. Back and stomach sleepers should pick a Beautyrest mattress that offers a firmness level between Medium and Ultra Firm. I primarily recommend Ultra Firm to heavier back and stomach sleepers over 230 pounds, because it's the most supportive. Medium offers a nice balance between pressure relief and support, and the Firm mattress model is a good choice for people who live with back pain because of its medium-firm profile. Combination sleepers who spend an equal amount of time in different sleeping positions, a Beautyrest mattress with a Medium firmness level will be soft and firm enough to accommodate you. Body type Beautyrest mattresses are all designed with individually wrapped coil systems that the brand refers to as T1, T2 and T3 technology. Regardless of the mattress you get, it'll be supportive enough for all body types. Beds that boast T3 individually wrapped coils will just be even more supportive and durable. Beautyrest mattress prices
TwinTwin XlFullQueenKingCal King Beautyrest $799$829$879$899$1,249$1,249Beautyrest Hybrid $1,099$1,179$1,179$1,199$1,599$1,599World Class $1,299$1,329$1,379$1,399$1,799$1,799World Class Hybrid $1,299$1,329$1,379$1,399$1,799$1,799Select $569$619$669$699$949$949Select Hybrid $899$949$1,019$1,099$1,499$1,499Black $1,549$1,829$1,999$2,599$2,599Black Hybrid (2024) $1,549$1,829$1,999$2,599$2,599Harmony $599$629$679$699$1,049$1,049Harmony Hybrid $899$929$979$999$1,499$1,499Harmony Luxe $1,299$1,329$1,379$1,399$1,799$1,799Harmony Luxe Hybrid $1,399$1,429$1,479$1,499$1,999$1,999Pressure Smart $1,650$1,950$2,100$2,250$2,900$2,900
Prices listed above reflect the cost of the base model. Prices of a Beautyrest range from very fair to relatively expensive. While the brand offers a lot of luxury mattresses, you can also get a premium mattress for a very fair price, compared to other brands. The Harmony and Pressure Smart models are more comparable to bed-in-a-box mattress prices. Trial, warranty and shipping With every Beautyrest black mattress purchase, you can expect:100-night trialFree white glove delivery10-year limited warrantyOnce you purchase a model, you will be contacted by a customer service rep from Beautyrest who will coordinate a delivery date with you. When the delivery people arrive, they'll set up your mattress and conveniently take your old one away for you. Final verdict on the Beautyrest mattressesBeautyrest is up there with the likes of Sealy and Tempur-Pedic and has been in the industry for long enough to know how to make a great quality bed. The Black Collection is their ultra-premium line while the Harmony Collection offers quality beds at more affordable prices. When you buy a Beautyrest mattress you can rest assured that you're making a good investment.You can always return your mattress for a full refund if it isn't up to your standards. If you want a premium mattress from a reputable brand, Beautyrest beds are a good choice and worth the money. How does Beautyrest compare to other mattress brands?Beautyrest vs. Tempur-PedicWhen you compare two of the bedding industry's biggest names, Beautyrest and Tempur-Pedic, you have a lot of high-end mattresses to choose from. The biggest difference between the beds these brands offer is feel. Tempur-Pedic is known for its dense, prominent memory foam-feeling beds. It's the signature feel. Beautyrest mattresses can be purchased with big fluffy pillow tops, and feel more neutral and responsive.Beautyrest vs. Saatva Saatva is a luxury online mattress brand. You won't find one in a brick-and-mortar store like Macy's or Mattress Firm. Like the beds from Beautyrest, the Saatva Classic is a durable and supportive hybrid bed. Saatva has two layers of coils and a Lumbar Support wire for additional back support. Saatva is also more affordable than many of the beds offered by Beautyrest. Beautyrest mattress FAQ
Is Beautyrest made by Serta?
Yes. Beautyrest belongs to the family of Serta, Simmons and Tuft & Needle brands.
Show more
Is Beautyrest Black worth it?
If you're looking for a premium mattress, the Beautyrest Black is definitely worth the money. This mattress offers great value for the price.
Show more
Is Beautyrest good for back pain?
If you have back pain, I recommend you opt for a firm mattress. The Beautyrest in the Firm option will be your best choice.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.