Is a Half-Point Fed Interest Rate Cut on the Table? | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Key Takeaways
September Rate Cut ‘All but Guaranteed’
The Case for a Big Rate Cut
The Case for Going Small on Rate Cuts
What to Expect From the Fed Meeting
Home
Economy
Is a Half-Point Fed Interest Rate Cut on the Table?
Is a Half-Point Fed Interest Rate Cut on the Table?
With the economy weakening but inflation sticky, markets see a small chance that the Fed will opt for a jumbo rate cut.
Sarah Hansen
Sep 15, 2025
Share
Key TakeawaysBond futures traders see a 94% chance of a quarter-point cut and a 6% chance of a larger half-point cut on Wednesday.With recent data showing a weakening labor market, analysts expect central bankers to ease policy to support the economy, even as some upside risks to inflation from tariffs remain.Dissenting votes are possible, with some Fed officials favoring a more aggressive path.The question is not whether the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates at its Wednesday policy-setting meeting, but by how much.On Monday, President Donald Trump called for the Fed to enact a “bigger” cut. Markets widely expect central bankers to reduce the benchmark interest rate by a more measured 25 basis points. Proponents of a more aggressive 50-point cut cite the rapidly weakening labor market and minimal upside risks to inflation from tariffs.Wednesday’s policy decision will be subject to heightened scrutiny amid increasingly harsh criticism of the Fed by Trump, who has pushed for dramatically lower interest rates for months. Simmering in the background are worries about the erosion of the Fed’s independence, with legal proceedings surrounding Trump’s attempt to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook still ongoing. Samuel Tombs, chief US economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, expects a high degree of division among Fed officials. “The most likely outcome is a three-way split,” he wrote in a note to clients on Monday, with some governors “attempting to please Mr. Trump with a vote to ease by 50 bp” while the majority opt for a smaller cut and one or two vote for no change.Wednesday’s meeting will also be accompanied by a new “dot plot”—Fed officials’ collected projections for rates and the economy in the years ahead—which was last updated in June. With the labor market weakening, September’s dots may indicate whether officials expect deeper cuts before the end of the year beyond a half-point, which had been the consensus in June.September Rate Cut ‘All but Guaranteed’The target federal-funds rate sits at a range of 4.25%-4.50%, where it has been since December. It’s been almost exactly a year since the Fed’s last jumbo 50-basis-point cut, which came in September 2024 after data showed improvement in the inflation picture and evidence of some softening in the labor market.But now, “the rapidly weakening employment picture and other less-than-stellar economic data all but guarantees a September rate cut,” explains Dominic Pappalardo, chief multi-asset strategist at Morningstar Wealth. On Monday, bond futures markets were pricing in roughly 94% odds of a smaller cut, according to the CME FedWatch Tool, and 6% odds of a larger cut. Expectations for that larger cut were as high as 11% earlier this month.The Case for a Big Rate CutMuch of the argument for a larger cut is based on the cooling labor market. Sluggish monthly payroll growth data for July and August took analysts by surprise, and a slew of downward revisions to previous months’ data means the jobs picture looks much worse than it previously appeared. On top of that, annual benchmark revisions to payroll data between March 2024 and March 2025 showed that the economy added 900,000 fewer jobs than previously estimated over that year. Steve Englander, head of global G10 FX Research at Standard Chartered, says the factors that led to the dramatic overstatement of jobs growth over the past year are still in place. “There’s no reason to believe that recent numbers are not similarly biased,” he says, and Fed officials are aware of the distortions. He wrote in a note to clients last week that the combination of soft data and those downward revisions could “justify a significant move” from the Fed.The Case for Going Small on Rate CutsJim Caron, chief investment officer of the portfolio solutions group at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, believes the Fed will opt for a smaller cut. “They can be steady as opposed to rushed,” he says.“We don’t see the Committee going for something more aggressive,” JPMorgan chief US economist Michael Feroli wrote Friday. He argues that the labor market has been cooling at a “much more gradual pace” than last summer, before the Fed made its last big cut. He points to how the unemployment rate has remained relatively steady these past few months, while inflation has moved higher—not lower, like it did last summer. Analysts say the ongoing upward pressure on prices from tariffs will steer the Fed toward a more cautious approach. “Twelve months ago, you didn’t have the threat of inflation coming from tariffs,” says Ryan Sweet, chief US economist at Oxford Economics.“The committee is still quite worried about the possibility that tariffs could lead to some medium-term problems with inflation,” adds Tombs of Pantheon Macroeconomics.Another factor is the so-called neutral rate—the interest rate at which policy is neither accommodative nor restrictive. Central bankers have acknowledged that while rates have remained steady, the neutral rate is likely higher than it has been in the past. It’s estimated to be somewhere around 3.0%-3.5%. On top of that, loosening financial conditions mean policy overall is less restrictive. “A year ago, when [the Fed] went for that jumbo 50 basis point cut, they thought rates were much further above neutral, so they had further to go,” Tombs adds.For Englander of Standard Chartered, rates are still high enough above neutral to justify a larger cut. “Why not get closer to equilibrium and then see what happens?” he asks.What to Expect From the Fed MeetingEven when financial markets and analysts agree, no one has a crystal ball for the Fed. Rate cut predictions have whipsawed this year amid a rapidly changing economic outlook.At the same time, central bankers looking at the same economic data may not reach a consensus as to the next best move for policy. Earlier this summer, disagreement over the nature of tariff-induced inflation—whether price pressures would be temporary or more pervasive—led to two dissenting votes among the governors at the Fed’s July meeting for the first time since 1993. Wednesday’s meeting could bring more of the same.“We do expect some dissents for a 50bp cut, and perhaps for something even larger,” writes Feroli of JPMorgan.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Economy
View All
Forecasts for August PCE Report Shows Some Cooling, but Tariff Impacts Persist Core monthly inflation could come in slightly lower.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Sarah Hansen Senior Reporter
More from Author
Sarah Hansen is a senior reporter for Morningstar. Email Sarah at sarah.hansen2@morningstar.com.
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue?
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
Forecasts for August PCE Report Shows Some Cooling, but Tariff Impacts Persist
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
The Fed’s ‘Difficult Situation’: Reading Between the Lines of the September Dot Plot
Sarah Hansen Sep 17, 2025
Is a Half-Point Fed Interest Rate Cut on the Table?
Sarah Hansen Sep 15, 2025
Is the US Economy Headed for a Recession?
Sarah Hansen Sep 12, 2025
August CPI Report: Inflation Remains Elevated, but a September Fed Cut Looks Likely
Sarah Hansen Sep 11, 2025
Labor Market Slowdown Builds as August Jobs Report Shows Unexpected Weakness
Sarah Hansen Sep 5, 2025
Markets Bet on More Fed Interest Rate Cuts After Another Weak Jobs Report
Sarah Hansen Sep 5, 2025
5 Top Strategists on the Biggest Catalysts for Stocks This Fall
Sarah Hansen Sep 2, 2025
Vanguard’s Sara Devereux: Why It’s a ‘Terrific Environment’ for Bond Income
Sarah Hansen Aug 29, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility