Medical Research Initiatives | National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
(LockA locked padlock)
or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Menu
Health Information
Health Information
Health Info Lines
MedlinePlus Health Info
Science Education Resources
NIH Clinical Research Trials and You
Your Healthiest Self: Wellness Toolkits
NIH News in Health
Talking With Your Doctor or Health Care Provider
Grants & Funding
Grants & Funding
Grants Home Page
Find Funding
Due Dates
How to Apply
New to NIH
Policy & Compliance
Grants News/Blog
Contracts
Loan Repayment
News & Events
News & Events
News Releases
Media Inquiries
NIH on Social Media
Images and B-roll
Calendar of Events
NIH News Publications
Research & Training
Research & Training
Medical Research Initiatives
Science Highlights
Science Education
Research in NIH Labs & Clinics
Training Opportunities
Library Resources
Research Resources
Clinical Research Resources
Safety, Regulation & Guidance
Lasker Clinical Research Scholars
Institutes at NIH
Institutes at NIH
List of Institutes and Centers
NIH Office of the Director
Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers
NIH Institute and Center Contact Information
About NIH
About NIH
Mission and Goals
Organization
The NIH Director
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
En Español
Search
Search
Breadcrumb
Home
Research & Training
Medical Research Initiatives
Science Highlights
Science Education
Research in NIH Labs & Clinics
Training Opportunities
Library Resources
Research Resources
Clinical Research Resources
Safety, Regulation & Guidance
Lasker Clinical Research Scholars
Medical Research Initiatives
Rapid Acceleration of Diagnostics (RADx)
An initiative to speed innovation in the development, commercialization, and implementation of technologies for COVID-19 testing
RECOVER
A new research initiative to understand, prevent, and treat the long-term effects of COVID-19.
IMPROVE Initiative
Learn more about NIH research to address the rising U.S. rates of pregnancy-related deaths.
21st Century Cures Act
Providing NIH with critical tools to further advance biomedical research, promote innovation and speed development of new therapies.
Cancer Moonshot℠
Cancer prevention and detection, while making more therapies available to more patients.
The BRAIN Initiative
Learn about an audacious initiative aimed at revolutionizing our understanding of the human brain.
Advancing ME/CFS Research
Learn about shared areas of interest and challenges to advance ME/CFS research.
All of Us℠ Research Program
Learn about disease treatment and prevention that takes into account individual variability in genes, environment, and lifestyle.
Environmental influences on Child Health Outcomes (ECHO) Program
Learn about new research to understand environmental influences on child health.
Accelerating Medicines Partnership® (AMP®)
A bold venture to help identify new treatments and cures for diseases.
Rigor and Reproducibility
Information about the efforts underway by NIH to enhance rigor and reproducibility in scientific research.
Regenerative Medicine Innovation Project (RMIP)
RMIP supports clinical research on adult stem cells, while promoting scientific rigor and patient safety.
Data Science at NIH
Harnessing the potential of the computational and quantitative sciences to elevate the impact and efficiency of biomedical research.
NIH HEAL Initiative
Trans-agency effort to speed scientific solutions to stem the national opioid crisis.
INCLUDE Project
Agency-wide initiative on the critical health needs of individuals with Down syndrome.
Women in Biomedical Careers
Learn how NIH is maximizing the potential of women scientists and engineers.
NIH Common Fund
Learn how NIH is accelerating discovery by supporting cross-cutting, trans-NIH programs.
NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research
Learn how NIH is enhancing collaboration in support of research on the nervous system.
Sound Health: An NIH-Kennedy Center Partnership
Music can get you moving, lift your mood, and even help you recall a memory, but can it improve your health?
This page last reviewed on September 19, 2025
Footer menu
NIH Home
Contact Us
En Español
Virtual Tour
Visitor Information
FAQs
NIH on Social Media
Press Room
NIH Website Archives
National Institutes of Health
9000 Rockville Pike
Bethesda, Maryland 20892
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health®
Follow Us
www.nih.gov
An official website of the Department of Health and Human Services
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility
Freedom of Information Act
No Fear Act
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Office of Inspector General
Nondiscrimination Notice
Looking for U.S. government information and services?
Visit USA.gov
Subir