Swiss Re Has Proven to Be a Superior Underwriter With a Focus on Stronger and More Specialist Lines | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Company Reports
Swiss Re AG Swiss Re AG
SREN: XSWX (CHE)
View Stock Summary
Morningstar Rating for Stocks
Fair Value
Economic Moat
Capital Allocation
CHF 141.00NpslWcmyytxlw
Swiss Re Has Proven to Be a Superior Underwriter With a Focus on Stronger and More Specialist Lines
Henry Heathfield
Sep 25, 2025
Share
Stock Analyst Note
Reinsurance: While Climate Change Could Drive Volume, Headwinds Coming From a Soft Cycle
Henry Heathfield
Sep 25, 2025
Business Strategy and Outlook For almost a decade, Swiss Re has been missing its stride. Yet we think this is a top-quality business with some unique assets. More than any other European reinsurer we cover, Swiss Re puts research and development, data and technology, customer relationships, analytics, and insights front and center when trying to carve out a pure underwriting-based competitive advantage. It has delivered the leading property and casualty claims ratio by a minimum of 1 percentage point under IFRS 4. Whether the business is delivering superior underwriting under IFRS 17 remains unclear. We think it operates with strong natural catastrophe underwriting skill sets, driven by its proprietary risk models and collaboration with leading scientists. Barriers to entry are high because of potential losses should a business fail to properly underwrite. A new entrant's entire capital base could easily be wiped out. That entrenches Swiss Re with customers, enhances trust, and increases switching costs.
Share This Report
Company Report Archive
View All
Stock Analyst Note
Reinsurance: While Climate Change Could Drive Volume, Headwinds Coming From a Soft Cycle
Henry Heathfield Sep 25, 2025
Company Report
Swiss Re Has Proven to Be a Superior Underwriter With a Focus on Stronger and More Specialist Lines
Henry Heathfield Sep 25, 2025
Stock Analyst Note
Swiss Re Earnings: Continues to Deliver a Solid Beat
Henry Heathfield Aug 14, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility