GitHub - elastic/elasticsearch: Free and Open Source, Distributed, RESTful Search Engine
Skip to content
Navigation Menu
Toggle navigation
Sign in
Appearance settings
Platform
GitHub Copilot
Write better code with AI
GitHub Spark
New
Build and deploy intelligent apps
GitHub Models
New
Manage and compare prompts
GitHub Advanced Security
Find and fix vulnerabilities
Actions
Automate any workflow
Codespaces
Instant dev environments
Issues
Plan and track work
Code Review
Manage code changes
Discussions
Collaborate outside of code
Code Search
Find more, search less
Explore
Why GitHub
Documentation
GitHub Skills
Blog
Integrations
GitHub Marketplace
MCP Registry
View all features
Solutions
By company size
Enterprises
Small and medium teams
Startups
Nonprofits
By use case
App Modernization
DevSecOps
DevOps
CI/CD
View all use cases
By industry
Healthcare
Financial services
Manufacturing
Government
View all industries
View all solutions
Resources
Topics
AI
DevOps
Security
Software Development
View all
Explore
Learning Pathways
Events & Webinars
Ebooks & Whitepapers
Customer Stories
Partners
Executive Insights
Open Source
GitHub Sponsors
Fund open source developers
The ReadME Project
GitHub community articles
Repositories
Topics
Trending
Collections
Enterprise
Enterprise platform
AI-powered developer platform
Available add-ons
GitHub Advanced Security
Enterprise-grade security features
Copilot for business
Enterprise-grade AI features
Premium Support
Enterprise-grade 24/7 support
Pricing
Search or jump to...
Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests...
Search
Clear
Search syntax tips
Provide feedback
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously.
Include my email address so I can be contacted
Cancel
Submit feedback
Saved searches
Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly
Name
Query
To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.
Cancel
Create saved search
Sign in
Sign up
Appearance settings
Resetting focus
You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
Dismiss alert
elastic
/
elasticsearch
Public
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Fork
25.5k
Star
74.7k
Free and Open Source, Distributed, RESTful Search Engine
www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch
License
View license
74.7k
stars
25.5k
forks
Branches
Tags
Activity
Star
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Code
Issues
4.4k
Pull requests
1k
Actions
Projects
0
Security
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Insights
Additional navigation options
Code
Issues
Pull requests
Actions
Projects
Security
Insights
elastic/elasticsearch
mainBranchesTagsGo to fileCodeOpen more actions menuFolders and filesNameNameLast commit messageLast commit dateLatest commit History90,177 Commits.buildkite.buildkite  .ci.ci  .github.github  .idea.idea  benchmarksbenchmarks  build-conventionsbuild-conventions  build-tools-internalbuild-tools-internal  build-toolsbuild-tools  clientclient  dev-toolsdev-tools  distributiondistribution  docs-mdx/painlessdocs-mdx/painless  docsdocs  gradlegradle  libslibs  licenseslicenses  modulesmodules  pluginsplugins  qaqa  rest-api-specrest-api-spec  serverserver  testtest  x-packx-pack  .backportrc.json.backportrc.json  .dir-locals.el.dir-locals.el  .editorconfig.editorconfig  .git-blame-ignore-revs.git-blame-ignore-revs  .gitattributes.gitattributes  .gitignore.gitignore  BUILDING.mdBUILDING.md  CHANGELOG.mdCHANGELOG.md  CONTRIBUTING.mdCONTRIBUTING.md  LICENSE.txtLICENSE.txt  NOTICE.txtNOTICE.txt  README.asciidocREADME.asciidoc  REST_API_COMPATIBILITY.mdREST_API_COMPATIBILITY.md  TESTING.asciidocTESTING.asciidoc  TRACING.mdTRACING.md  VagrantfileVagrantfile  branches.jsonbranches.json  build.gradlebuild.gradle  catalog-info.yamlcatalog-info.yaml  gradle.propertiesgradle.properties  gradlewgradlew  gradlew.batgradlew.bat  muted-tests.ymlmuted-tests.yml  renovate.jsonrenovate.json  settings.gradlesettings.gradle  updatecli-compose.yamlupdatecli-compose.yaml  View all filesRepository files navigationREADMEContributingLicenseSecurityElasticsearch
Elasticsearch is a distributed search and analytics engine, scalable data store and vector database optimized for speed and relevance on production-scale workloads. Elasticsearch is the foundation of Elastic’s open Stack platform. Search in near real-time over massive datasets, perform vector searches, integrate with generative AI applications, and much more.
Use cases enabled by Elasticsearch include:
Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)
Vector search
Full-text search
Logs
Metrics
Application performance monitoring (APM)
Security logs
... and more!
To learn more about Elasticsearch’s features and capabilities, see our
product page.
To access information on machine learning innovations and the latest Lucene contributions from Elastic, more information can be found in Search Labs.
Get started
The simplest way to set up Elasticsearch is to create a managed deployment with
Elasticsearch Service on Elastic
Cloud.
If you prefer to install and manage Elasticsearch yourself, you can download
the latest version from
elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch.
Run Elasticsearch locally
Warning
DO NOT USE THESE INSTRUCTIONS FOR PRODUCTION DEPLOYMENTS.
This setup is intended for local development and testing only.
Quickly set up Elasticsearch and Kibana in Docker for local development or testing, using the start-local script.
ℹ️ For more detailed information about the start-local setup, refer to the README on GitHub.
Prerequisites
If you don’t have Docker installed, download and install Docker Desktop for your operating system.
If you’re using Microsoft Windows, then install Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL).
Trial license
This setup comes with a one-month trial license that includes all Elastic features.
After the trial period, the license reverts to Free and open - Basic.
Refer to Elastic subscriptions for more information.
Run start-local
To set up Elasticsearch and Kibana locally, run the start-local script:
curl -fsSL https://elastic.co/start-local | sh
This script creates an elastic-start-local folder containing configuration files and starts both Elasticsearch and Kibana using Docker.
After running the script, you can access Elastic services at the following endpoints:
Elasticsearch: http://localhost:9200
Kibana: http://localhost:5601
The script generates a random password for the elastic user, which is displayed at the end of the installation and stored in the .env file.
Caution
This setup is for local testing only. HTTPS is disabled, and Basic authentication is used for Elasticsearch. For security, Elasticsearch and Kibana are accessible only through localhost.
API access
An API key for Elasticsearch is generated and stored in the .env file as ES_LOCAL_API_KEY.
Use this key to connect to Elasticsearch with a programming language client or the REST API.
From the elastic-start-local folder, check the connection to Elasticsearch using curl:
source .env
curl $ES_LOCAL_URL -H "Authorization: ApiKey ${ES_LOCAL_API_KEY}"
To use the password for the elastic user, set and export the ES_LOCAL_PASSWORD environment variable. For example:
source .env
export ES_LOCAL_PASSWORD
Send requests to Elasticsearch
You send data and other requests to Elasticsearch through REST APIs.
You can interact with Elasticsearch using any client that sends HTTP requests,
such as the Elasticsearch
language clients and curl.
Using curl
Here’s an example curl command to create a new Elasticsearch index, using basic auth:
curl -u elastic:$ES_LOCAL_PASSWORD \
-X PUT \
http://localhost:9200/my-new-index \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json'
Using a language client
To connect to your local dev Elasticsearch cluster with a language client, you can use basic authentication with the elastic username and the password stored in the ES_LOCAL_PASSWORD environment variable.
You’ll use the following connection details:
Elasticsearch endpoint: http://localhost:9200
Username: elastic
Password: $ES_LOCAL_PASSWORD (Value you set in the environment variable)
For example, to connect with the Python elasticsearch client:
import os
from elasticsearch import Elasticsearch
username = 'elastic'
password = os.getenv('ES_LOCAL_PASSWORD') # Value you set in the environment variable
client = Elasticsearch(
"http://localhost:9200",
basic_auth=(username, password)
)
print(client.info())
Using the Dev Tools Console
Kibana’s developer console provides an easy way to experiment and test requests.
To access the console, open Kibana, then go to Management > Dev Tools.
Add data
You index data into Elasticsearch by sending JSON objects (documents) through the REST APIs.
Whether you have structured or unstructured text, numerical data, or geospatial data,
Elasticsearch efficiently stores and indexes it in a way that supports fast searches.
For timestamped data such as logs and metrics, you typically add documents to a
data stream made up of multiple auto-generated backing indices.
To add a single document to an index, submit an HTTP post request that targets the index.
POST /customer/_doc/1
{
"firstname": "Jennifer",
"lastname": "Walters"
}
This request automatically creates the customer index if it doesn’t exist,
adds a new document that has an ID of 1, and
stores and indexes the firstname and lastname fields.
The new document is available immediately from any node in the cluster.
You can retrieve it with a GET request that specifies its document ID:
GET /customer/_doc/1
To add multiple documents in one request, use the _bulk API.
Bulk data must be newline-delimited JSON (NDJSON).
Each line must end in a newline character (\n), including the last line.
PUT customer/_bulk
{ "create": { } }
{ "firstname": "Monica","lastname":"Rambeau"}
{ "create": { } }
{ "firstname": "Carol","lastname":"Danvers"}
{ "create": { } }
{ "firstname": "Wanda","lastname":"Maximoff"}
{ "create": { } }
{ "firstname": "Jennifer","lastname":"Takeda"}
Search
Indexed documents are available for search in near real-time.
The following search matches all customers with a first name of Jennifer
in the customer index.
GET customer/_search
{
"query" : {
"match" : { "firstname": "Jennifer" }
}
}
Explore
You can use Discover in Kibana to interactively search and filter your data.
From there, you can start creating visualizations and building and sharing dashboards.
To get started, create a data view that connects to one or more Elasticsearch indices,
data streams, or index aliases.
Go to Management > Stack Management > Kibana > Data Views.
Select Create data view.
Enter a name for the data view and a pattern that matches one or more indices,
such as customer.
Select Save data view to Kibana.
To start exploring, go to Analytics > Discover.
Upgrade
To upgrade from an earlier version of Elasticsearch, see the
Elasticsearch upgrade
documentation.
Build from source
Elasticsearch uses Gradle for its build system.
To build a distribution for your local OS and print its output location upon
completion, run:
./gradlew localDistro
To build a distribution for another platform, run the related command:
./gradlew :distribution:archives:linux-tar:assemble
./gradlew :distribution:archives:darwin-tar:assemble
./gradlew :distribution:archives:windows-zip:assemble
Distributions are output to distribution/archives.
To run the test suite, see TESTING.
Documentation
For the complete Elasticsearch documentation visit
elastic.co.
For information about our documentation processes, see the
docs README.
Examples and guides
The elasticsearch-labs repo contains executable Python notebooks, sample apps, and resources to test out Elasticsearch for vector search, hybrid search and generative AI use cases.
Contribute
For contribution guidelines, see CONTRIBUTING.
Questions? Problems? Suggestions?
To report a bug or request a feature, create a
GitHub Issue. Please
ensure someone else hasn’t created an issue for the same topic.
Need help using Elasticsearch? Reach out on the
Elastic Forum or Slack. A
fellow community member or Elastic engineer will be happy to help you out.
About
Free and Open Source, Distributed, RESTful Search Engine
www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch
Topics
java
search-engine
elasticsearch
Resources
Readme
License
View license
Contributing
Contributing
Security policy
Security policy
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Activity
Custom properties
Stars
74.7k
stars
Watchers
2.7k
watching
Forks
25.5k
forks
Report repository
Releases
210
Elasticsearch 9.1.4
Latest
Sep 18, 2025
+ 209 releases
Packages
0
No packages published
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Contributors
2,074
+ 2,060 contributors
Languages
Java
99.5%
Groovy
0.2%
StringTemplate
0.2%
Shell
0.1%
ANTLR
0.0%
Dockerfile
0.0%
Footer
© 2025 GitHub, Inc.
Footer navigation
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Community
Docs
Contact
Manage cookies
Do not share my personal information
You can’t perform that action at this time.