Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Slow-Cooker Bone-In Chicken Breast
Roasted Chicken with Rosemary
Oven-Fried Chicken Breast
Pan-Seared Chicken Breast
Delicious Oven Barbecued Chicken
Baked Almond Chicken Breasts
Dutch Oven Chicken Breasts
Baked Chicken Breast
Roasted Chicken with Garlic-Sherry Sauce
Italian Baked Chicken Breasts
Crispy Oven-Baked Chicken
Baked Breaded Chicken
Parmesan Baked Chicken
Baked Chicken
Lemon-Roasted Chicken
Simple Baked Chicken
Marinated Baked Chicken Breasts
Garlic-Herb Roasted Chicken
Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home
Recipes
Ingredients
Meat & Poultry
Chicken
Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast
Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast Recipe photo by Taste of Home
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 10 mins. + brining Cook: 15 mins. + resting
By
Lauren Habermehl
Recipe by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Dec. 09, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Learn how to roast chicken breast in the oven for the juiciest, most tender chicken. These oven-roasted chicken breasts are so good that you'll want to make them every night of the week.
There’s nothing easier or more versatile than boneless skinless chicken breasts for dinner. You can grill chicken breast, make slow-cooker meals with chicken breast or use it in savory chicken skillet recipes. If you’re looking for a foolproof way to make juicy chicken, this oven-roasted chicken breast recipe is our tried-and-true favorite.
I know what you’re thinking: Roast chicken breast in the oven is notorious for being dry, tough and, well, a bit lackluster. Luckily, the Taste of Home Test Kitchen has a method that ensures the chicken stays tender and juicy every time. So say goodbye to dry, dull chicken breasts that double as doorstops and say hello to the best oven-roasted chicken breast recipe you’ve ever had.
How long should you roast chicken breast in the oven?
When baked in a 425°F oven, chicken breasts usually take 15 to 20 minutes, depending on their thickness. When perfecting how to roast chicken breast in the oven, our Test Kitchen found that a higher temperature is the secret to locking in moisture and keeping the meat juicy. As a bonus, increasing the temperature from the typical 350° oven setting means the chicken cooks more quickly, so you can get dinner on the table in a flash.
That said, no matter what temperature you use to roast chicken breast in the oven, the meat should always be baked to a food-safe temperature of at least 165° to ensure it is fully cooked. Undercooking chicken is definitely one of the top mistakes everyone makes when making chicken.
Ingredients for Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast
Chicken: For this recipe, opt for boneless skinless chicken breasts. But here are our top recipes for bone-in chicken breasts if you prefer to go that route.
Brine: Brining the chicken in a solution of water and salt will boost the chicken’s natural flavor and ensure the meat has enough moisture to stay tender as it cooks. This step will ensure your roast chicken breasts won’t be dry or tough.
Olive oil: A drizzle of olive oil helps the seasoning adhere to the chicken and promotes browning as the chicken breasts bake in the oven.
Salt and pepper: While you can play around with other herbs and spices or spice blends, a bit of salt and pepper is all you need to make flavorful, succulent boneless chicken breasts in the oven.
Directions
Step 1: Brine the chicken
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
In a large bowl, whisk together the water and 2 tablespoons salt until the salt is dissolved.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Add the chicken and let it brine for 20 to 30 minutes.
Step 2: Season the chicken
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Preheat the oven to 425°. Drain the chicken and discard the brine. Pat the chicken breasts dry with a paper towel.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Transfer the chicken to a greased sheet pan or a 13×9-inch baking dish. Brush it with olive oil, then sprinkle it with the remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt and the pepper.
Editor’s Tip: If your chicken breasts are very thick on one end and not on the other, you’ll want to flatten the chicken with a meat mallet until the breasts have an even thickness. This helps the chicken cook evenly. A heavy skillet or saucepan can also be used if you don’t have a meat mallet on hand.
Step 3: Bake the chicken
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until the internal temperature reaches 165°.
Editor’s Tip: The temperature of the chicken is important. Under 165° puts you at risk of foodborne illness, but over 165° will make the chicken dry and tough, so be sure to use a reliable meat thermometer.
Step 4: Rest and serve
Remove the chicken breasts from the oven and transfer them to a cutting board. Let them rest for about five minutes, then slice or chop them as desired.
Editor’s Tip: Resting is one of the best ways to make tough meat tender. It allows the juices to redistribute in the chicken, locking in the moisture so the juices don’t spill out once cut.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast Variations
Lemon and herb oven-roasted chicken breasts: In a small bowl, combine the salt and pepper with the zest from one lemon and 1 teaspoon each of dried sage, thyme and rosemary. Rub the seasoning blend on the outside of the chicken before baking. You might also love this baked lemon chicken.
Cajun oven-roasted chicken breasts: For a zippy, spicy twist, season the chicken breasts on all sides with 2 teaspoons of your favorite Cajun seasoning blend.
Ranch oven-roasted chicken breasts: For ranch dressing lovers, season the chicken breasts on all sides with a 1-ounce packet of ranch seasoning. Or, for a little crunch, try this baked ranch chicken recipe.
How to Store Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast
If you have any leftovers, store them in an airtight container in the fridge. An oven-roasted chicken breast will last up to four days.
Can you freeze oven-roasted chicken breast?
You can store cooked chicken breast in the freezer. Simply wrap the meat in storage wrap or foil, then place it in an airtight container or a freezer storage bag. Cooked chicken will last in the freezer for up to four months. Thaw it in the refrigerator overnight before reheating.
How do you reheat oven-roasted chicken breast?
Chicken breasts are a versatile protein that can be reheated in the oven, microwave or air fryer, or on the stovetop. Consult this guide for how to reheat chicken for all our favorite methods.
Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast Tips
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
What can you serve with oven-roasted chicken breast?
These baked chicken breasts are great with just about anything, so try serving them with your favorite side salad recipes or potato recipes. You can also pair them with a vegetable side dish or other quick and easy side dish recipes.
How else can you use oven-roasted chicken breast?
This oven-roasted chicken breast recipe is great to make ahead for use in any recipe that calls for cooked chicken (like these recipes with rotisserie chicken). Shred the breasts and use them to make quick chipotle ranch chicken tacos, or add them to a favorite chicken casserole recipe. Or, make buffalo chicken sliders or a chicken Caesar wrap. The possibilities are truly endless!
Test Kitchen Approved
Oven-Roasted Chicken Breast
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:4 chicken breasts
Prep:10 min
Cook:15 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2 cups water
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 teaspoon salt, divided
4 boneless skinless chicken breast halves (about 4 ounces each)
2 teaspoons olive oil
2 teaspoons pepper
Text Ingredients
Directions
In a large bowl, whisk together water and 2 tablespoons salt until salt is dissolved. Add chicken; let brine 20-30 minutes. Drain chicken; discard brine. Pat chicken dry with paper towels.
Preheat oven to 425°. Place chicken in a greased 13x9-in. dish or sheet pan. Brush with olive oil and season with remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt and pepper. Bake 15-20 minutes or until internal temperature reaches 165°. Transfer chicken to a cutting board; let rest 5 minutes. Slice or chop as desired.
Nutrition Facts
1 chicken breast: 144 calories, 5g fat (1g saturated fat), 63mg cholesterol, 940mg sodium, 1g carbohydrate (0 sugars, 0 fiber), 23g protein.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Baking chicken breast at just the right temperature makes the juiciest result. Pair it with potatoes and greens, and you’ll have dinner in a flash. —Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box