Changing 10 settings on my Samsung phone gave it a big performance boost | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Changing 10 settings on my Samsung phone gave it a big performance boost
Samsung phones come packed with smart features, but chances are, you're not using all of them. Here's the list of my favorites.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 10:58 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I've been fairly vocal recently that Samsung's One UI 7 is my favorite Android skin. It is fast, responsive, and intuitive. But nothing comes fine-tuned to your experience straight out of the box. You need to personalize your smartphone to make it more appealing. I change almost a dozen settings on every Samsung Galaxy phone to best suit my needs, and I believe these will elevate your user experience, too. Also: The best Samsung phones to buyFrom setting the highest available screen resolution to more privacy-focused features, here are 10 Galaxy phone settings (plus a bonus) that I recommend changing to enhance your Galaxy phone experience. Please note that some settings might be phone-specific.1. Turn off pop-up notifications
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETI do not like it when a message from a contact or an intrusive app notification pops up while I am in the middle of reading online or texting my favorite people. I get distracted easily. If a notification pops up, I tap on it and forget what I was doing. Also: Your Samsung phone has a secret Wi-Fi menu that's incredibly useful - how to access itIf you are anything like me, you should change this setting even before switching to gesture navigation. Go to Notifications > Notification pop-up style > Apps to show as brief > Toggle off All apps. 2. Switch to gesture navigation Unless you are setting up your new Samsung Galaxy phone from an older model, it defaults to the older three-button navigation system. If you like it, that is fine. But I find Android's gesture navigation more intuitive -- everything is a swipe away instead of an on-screen button. If you want that, you can change the system navigation to gestures by going to Settings > Display > Navigation bar > Swipe gestures. 3. Set to the highest screen resolution
Kerry Wan/ZDNETSamsung's Galaxy S25 Ultra has the best display on a smartphone right now. Thanks to second-generation Gorilla Armor, it is less reflective and displays colors better than its predecessor. You get a sharp QHD+ screen, but it is not set to that resolution by default. You need to go to Settings > Display > Screen resolution to get the best available display experience. It will use more battery, but the Ultra is an efficient smartphone. Even after maxing out the screen resolution, I still get an all-day battery life.
4. Change the side key's function Smartphones no longer have a "power button." It is called a side key or side button now, and it is one of my most disliked changes in recent times. Phone companies have renamed the power button to accommodate their smart assistants on long press. Also: 5 preinstalled apps you should delete from your Samsung phone immediatelyGoogle's Gemini is available by other methods, and Bixby is not as useful anyway, so I suggest changing the side key's function to offer a power menu. You can do so by going to Settings > Advanced features > Side button > Long Press > Power off menu.
5. Adjust lock screen notifications
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETOne UI 7 has changed how notifications appear on your lock screen. It is set to show icons on the top left corner by default, which is a big change from the previous card view. I prefer apps to show notifications in the latter form. To change this, you can go to Settings > Notifications > Lock screen notifications > Cards. I also hide sensitive notification content on the lock screen because I do not want anyone to walk up to my phone and see my personal messages. To change this setting, you can opt for Hide content under the same Lock screen notifications menu.
6. Sign in or sign up for a Samsung account I juggle between different phones but keep coming back to Samsung phones for One UI. Having a Samsung account is a big part of the user experience on Galaxy phones. From Samsung Wallet to Samsung's own password manager, I have a lot of information saved in them. Also: Finally, a Samsung phone that I'd put my S25 Ultra away for (especially at this price)Many might want to turn to Google Passwords for better cross-device functionality, but I still recommend signing up for a Samsung account to access Galaxy Themes (more on this below) and the Galaxy Store. It will also benefit you when you move from one Samsung phone to another with a seamless transfer.
7. Install this app
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETI recommend installing the Good Lock app from the Galaxy Store. It enables a slew of Samsung-exclusive features on your phone. I found the best use case for it when I was reviewing the Galaxy S25 Ultra. It features a module called Home Up that has a One Hand Operation+ function. Also: I spent a week in New York City with the Samsung Z Fold 7 - and it spoiled me the entire timeSince the new Samsung flagship is a big phone, I set up a swipe down from the right edge to access Quick Settings. You can do the same for six shortcuts within the Short swipe and Long swipe gestures, and access many more features within the Good Lock app.
8. Uninstall the bloatware Samsung Galaxy phones come with many apps that you might not use. Unlike previous years, you can now uninstall or at least disable them to save memory. For example, I do not have a Samsung TV and do not want the Microsoft Copilot app on my phone, so I uninstall TV and CoPilot, respectively. Other apps I disable or uninstall include Facebook, Samsung Tutor, and OneDrive.
9. Customize the home screen
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETSamsung has some of the best widgets on a phone. I love the Calendar widget because I can adjust the transparency. As a result, it looks better and keeps the functionality intact without disturbing the layout of my home screen. I have it located on the top so everything is just a glance away, yet it never asks for attention -- unlike other opaque Calendar widgets. Also: I bought Samsung's Galaxy Watch Ultra 2025, but I'd recommend this model insteadI also change my icon grid to the 5x5 layout to accommodate more icons on the bottom-most row. They are just a thumb tap away. Additionally, I apply my wallpaper color tones to the app icons for a more pleasing look. You can go to Wallpaper and style > Color palette and toggle it on to apply wallpaper colors to the whole system. It is not perfect, and some icons might still not be supported. However, it looks better than the basic colors.
10. Fix always-on display You get efficient displays on Samsung phones -- make use of them and enable everything, including the Always On display. I like having the time, day, and date information right there on the screen, available at a quick glance. Samsung defaults it to the Tap to show setting, meaning you need to tap on the screen for information. I recommend changing that to Always to make it more functional. Go to Settings > Lock screen and AOD > Always-on Display > Always. You can choose if you want to display the wallpaper or not -- I have set it to just display a black screen so it does not drain more battery. Bonus. Revert changes to the Notification Panel
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETSamsung changed its notification panel design to an iOS-like drawer. A right swipe down gives you access to Quick Settings, whereas a swipe down from the left side of the screen gives you access to notifications. However, if you like the previous design better, you can change it. I like having my notifications under Quick Settings, like the good old days. To revert this new design element, swipe down from the top right corner of the home screen > Pencil icon > Panel Settings > Together. You can also edit the top quick settings within this menu. Also: Every Samsung Galaxy S25 model compared: Which phone should you buy?A few other things I do on my Galaxy phones include changing the keyboard to Google Keyboard and sorting the home drawer icons in alphabetical order so it is easier to navigate. Samsung phones are some of the best on the market. While they do not promise over-the-top features, they are reliable and offer the most polished user interface with One UI. Just adjust these few settings, and you are all set. Enjoy your new Galaxy phone! Get the morning's top stories in your inbox each day with our Tech Today newsletter.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Changing these 12 settings on my Android phone extended its battery life by hours
Slow Android phone? Changing these 4 settings revitalized my whole system
Changing these 7 settings on my Samsung phone greatly extended its battery life
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use