The magnetic USB-C accessory I can't live without - and why you need one too | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
The magnetic USB-C accessory I can't live without - and why you need one too
I've been using this USB-C accessory for six years and even own quite a few different versions at this point. Here's why.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 7:25 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysThese eliminate the risk of breaking a USB-C port.Most can carry 240W of power, 40Gb/s of data, and 8K@60Hz video.There are even breakaway connectors with power meters.The other day I was asked about my most recommended USB-C product. I'm not sure what the person asking the question, a PR representative for a tech firm, expected. Maybe that I'd say the product they were pushing? A power bank? A cable? Some fancy satellite-enabled communicator that can survive being thrown into Mount Doom? An electric toothbrush that's also a cat brush? Nope. None of those.Also: This $12 USB-C accessory solved the biggest issue I had with my laptop's chargerMy favorite, most highly recommended USB-C product is the magnetic breakaway connector. I first came across these about six years ago, and while the concept has changed and been built on in that time, the actual idea is still a winner. Not seen one? They're small two-part USB-C connectors, male connector on one that fits into the device in question, female the other that goes onto the cable, and strong neodymium magnets between the two parts holding them together.
The magnets are super strong! Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET The idea is to allow you to have the convenience and safety of Apple's MagSafe MacBook breakaway connector on all your devices.
These connectors come in all sorts of styles. They started out pretty basic, with straight, elbow, and right-angled styles, and I found these were great for things like laptops, power banks, and power stations -- basically anywhere someone might trip over a cable, and that trip-up could cause damage.Also: My favorite USB-C accessory just got even better with a built-in power meter - and it's only $20They can happily carry 240W of power without getting hot or causing any mayhem with the charger or device, and they can even carry 40Gb/s of data and 8K@60Hz video. Then the connectors started to get fancier.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Magnetic breakaway connector These fancy swivel breakaway connectors are super fancy!
details
View at Amazon I've also got breakaway connectors that swivel that offer a high level of flexibility, making them great for ports that are in awkward locations. These swivel connectors do have limitations when it comes to data transfer, but if it's mostly power you're after transferring, these are fine.Also: This USB-C accessory gave my Android and iPhone an ingenious emergency toolYou can also get swivel breakaway connectors already attached to cables, which means one less thing to lose! But they can get fancier
Now we're getting really fancy! Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETThere are now breakaway connectors with power meters built in, and while these meters are only accurate to 0.1 resolution for amps, volts, and watts, they're fine for checking whether something is working and how fast it's charging. These support 240W power, carry 40Gb/s of data, and 8K@60Hz video. I love these, and they add a bit of techy glitz to something that might otherwise seem dull.Also: Why your USB-C device won't charge - and what you can do insteadPrice wise, all three of these connectors are in the $20 to $30 price range for packs of two. Sometimes you can get some deals, so keep your eyes open. ZDNET's buying advice I can't recommend these enough. My favorites are the basic straight, elbow, and right-angle style, but I do have quite a few of the swivel, and power meter versions about the place.
A couple of pieces of advice, though, if you're using these.
Also: This USB-C accessory unlocked thermal imaging powers on my Android and iPhoneFirst, the male part of the connector that goes into the device can be rather hard to remove, and you might be tempted to try prying it out with your fingernails. I know I was, and my fingernails paid the price. Some of the breakaway connectors come with a small removal tool, but if yours is down -- or you "misplaced" it -- you can always use some string thread or dental floss.
Some breakaway connectors come with a removal tool which saves a lot of broken fingernails! Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Alternatively, use some dental floss or strong cord. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETNext bit of advice is that if you lose the connector bit, don't throw the whole thing away because you can buy replacements.
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
7 most exciting tech accessories from IFA 2025 (and that you can actually buy)
These 7 smart plug hacks changed how I run my home - here's the setup
My search for the most durable USB-C cable is over - this one passes my brick test
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use