Samsung earns Nvidia certification for its HBM3 memory — stock jumps 5% as company finally catches up to SK hynix and Micron in HBM3E production | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
GPUs
Samsung reportedly slashes HBM3 prices to woo Nvidia
Tech Industry
SK hynix dethrones Samsung to become world's top-selling memory maker for the first time
Tech Industry
SK Hynix projects HBM market to expand 30% annually through 2030
Tech Industry
Sandisk and SK hynix join forces to standardize High Bandwidth Flash memory
GPUs
Nvidia wants 10Gbps HBM4 to blunt AMD’s MI450, report claims
RAM
YMTC and CXMT team up to accelerate Chinese domestic HBM production
RAM
New 3D-stacked memory tech seeks to dethrone HBM in AI inference
GPUs
SK hynix confirms 3GB GDDR7 memory modules are in the works
Storage
Samsung's revived Z-NAND targets 15x performance increase over traditional NAND
Semiconductors
Nvidia rumored to ditch its first-gen custom memory form factor for newer version
Artificial Intelligence
Intel jumps to HBM4 with Jaguar Shores, 2nd Gen MRDIMMs with Diamond Rapids
Semiconductors
ASML and SK hynix assemble industry-first 'commercial' High-NA EUV system at fab in South Korea
Tech Industry
Scientists achieve 120-layer Si/SiGe stack via low-pressure chemical vapor deposition to create next-gen 3D DRAM
GPUs
Kioxia’s new 5TB, 64 GB/s flash module puts NAND toward the memory bus for AI GPUs
Tech Industry
NAND and DRAM prices surge by up to 20%
Tech Industry
Samsung earns Nvidia certification for its HBM3 memory — stock jumps 5% as company finally catches up to SK hynix and Micron in HBM3E production
News
By
Bruno Ferreira
published
22 September 2025
Investor confidence reflects Samsung's efforts to regain its technology lead.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Samsung)
Samsung's 12-layer HBM3E chips have passed Nvidia's qualification tests for use in high-end AI accelerators. The Korean giant's stock price immediately jumped over 5% following the news, as the certification means Samsung is catching up to SK hynix and Micron, both of which were already selling HBM3E chips to Nvidia.The welcome development comes around 18 months after HBM3E's development was complete, and after multiple certification delays. Samsung reportedly won't be selling HBM3E to Nvidia in high quantities until 2026, as current orders for the speedy chips are being fulfilled by SK hynix and Micron.According to the report, Samsung's HBM3 memory is expected to go into Nvidia DGX B300 cards in fairly short order, as Bloomberg's industry sources expect the chips will get the final Nvidia certification quite soon. As for AMD, Samsung was already selling HBM3E chips for Instinct MI350 cards, alongside Micron. HBM3 is currently the top grade of memory chips available, comprising 12 layers, up from eight in standard HBM3. This configuration results in a meaty 1.2 TB/s per stack.
You may like
Samsung reportedly slashes HBM3 prices to woo Nvidia
SK hynix dethrones Samsung to become world's top-selling memory maker for the first time
SK Hynix projects HBM market to expand 30% annually through 2030
While HBM3E isn't even one year old, the AI train waits for no man. All sights are already set on HBM4, a spec that doubles the chips' bus width, resulting in approximately 2 TB/s of bandwidth per stack. It's worth noting that while the JEDEC HBM4 spec asks for 8 Gbps per pin, all three major memory makers are aiming for 10 to 11 GBps per pin on production chips, reportedly due to pressure from Nvidia. Thanks to manufacturing on 3-4 nm processes (down from 10 nm), HBM4 is predicted to offer significantly higher capacity of 64 GB per chip (up from 48 GB), along with a 20 to 30% reduction in power consumption.Samsung has been in talks with almost every AI chip maker to get an early certification for its upcoming HBM4 wares, intending to fire up volume production as soon as the first half of 2026. This particular race is currently led by SK hynix, which signaled the completion of its HBM4 development not even two weeks ago. Judging by Samsung's stock price jump, though, it seems investors are quite confident that the Korean maker will catch up soon enough.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Samsung
HBM3E
Nvidia
AMD
See all comments (0)
Bruno FerreiraContributorBruno Ferreira is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. He has decades of experience with PC hardware and assorted sundries, alongside a career as a developer. He's obsessed with detail and has a tendency to ramble on the topics he loves. When not doing that, he's usually playing games, or at live music shows and festivals.
Read more
Samsung reportedly slashes HBM3 prices to woo Nvidia
SK hynix dethrones Samsung to become world's top-selling memory maker for the first time
SK Hynix projects HBM market to expand 30% annually through 2030
Sandisk and SK hynix join forces to standardize High Bandwidth Flash memory
Nvidia wants 10Gbps HBM4 to blunt AMD’s MI450, report claims
YMTC and CXMT team up to accelerate Chinese domestic HBM production
Latest in Tech Industry
Twitch streamer raising money for cancer treatment has funds stolen by malware-ridden Steam game
China bets on DUV as EUV blockade reshapes chipmaking — but it won't dethrone ASML's advanced lithography, for now
Rare wooden-cased Apple-1 computer blasts past auctioneer estimate
China is converting farmland into data centers as part of $37 billion effort to centralize AI compute power
Hackers attack Europe’s automatic flight check-in systems
President Trump posts an AI-generated image of him trading Intel stock inside the White House
Latest in News
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan
Samsung earns Nvidia's certification for its HBM3 memory
FSR 4 modded to run on RDNA 2 GPUs improves visuals by "leaps and bounds" but carries 10-20% less FPS
Japanese city implements two-hour daily recreational smartphone usage limit
Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.