The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
The 12 Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy Now
Under Armour
VF
Adient
Bath & Body Works
Caesars Entertainment
Kohl’s
Winnebago Industries
Capri Holdings
CarMax
Lululemon Athletica
Yum China
Gildan Activewear
How to Find More of the Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
Home
Stocks
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles
and
Tori Brovet
Sep 19, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Under Armour Inc Class A
(UAA)
Lululemon Athletica Inc
(LULU)
Capri Holdings Ltd
(CPRI)
Kohl's Corp
(KSS)
VF Corp
(VFC)
+8 More
Consumer cyclical stocks are typically popular with investors when the economy is growing because that’s when consumers are more likely to spend money on discretionary items. Conversely, investors are usually less interested during economic slowdowns and recessions, when consumers spend less.In the year to date, the Morningstar US Consumer Cyclical Index rose 6.52%, while the Morningstar US Market Index gained 13.86%.The 12 Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy NowThese were the most undervalued consumer cyclical stocks that Morningstar’s analysts cover as of Sept. 18, 2025.Under Armour UA UAAVF VFCAdient ADNTBath & Body Works BBWICaesars Entertainment CZRKohl’s KSSWinnebago Industries WGOCapri Holdings CPRICarMax KMXLululemon Athletica LULUYum China YUMCGildan Activewear GILTo come up with our list of the best consumer cyclical stocks to buy now, we screened for:Consumer cyclical stocks that are undervalued, as measured by our price/fair value metric.Stocks that earn narrow or wide Morningstar Economic Moat Ratings, as well as companies that do not have a moat. We think companies with narrow economic moat ratings can fight off competitors for at least 10 years; wide-moat companies should remain competitive for 20 years or more.Stocks that earn a Low, Medium, High, or Very High Morningstar Uncertainty Rating, which captures the range of potential outcomes for a company’s fair value.Read more: What’s Behind Klarna’s $14 Billion IPO Valuation?Under ArmourMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.35Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: Very HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NoneIndustry: Apparel ManufacturingApparel manufacturing company Under Armour is the cheapest stock on our list of the best consumer cyclical stocks to buy. Under Armour develops, markets, and distributes athletic apparel, footwear, and accessories in North America, Asia-Pacific, Europe, and elsewhere. This apparel stock is trading 65% below our fair value estimate of $13.80 per share.We view Under Armour as lacking a moat, given its failure to build a competitive advantage over other athletic apparel firms. Between 2008 and 2016, the company’s North American sales increased to $4 billion from $700 million and it passed Adidas as the region’s second-largest athletic apparel brand after Nike. However, Under Armour’s North America sales have barely grown over the past decade due to challenges by established competitors and new entrants. CEO Kevin Plank intends to return the firm to its glory years as a performance sports pioneer, but the process is slow.Under Armour has had problems in both its direct-to-consumer and wholesale businesses. Although annual sales through its direct-to-consumer channels increased to about $2.1 billion in fiscal 2025 from $1.5 billion in 2016, Nike and others experienced greater direct-to-consumer growth in this period. Under Armour has opened its own stores as wholesale distribution has slowed, but 90% of them in North America are off-price. Still, we forecast its direct-to-consumer revenue will rise to 50.6% of total revenue in fiscal 2035 from 40.5% in fiscal 2025. This growth should allow Under Armour to have better control over its brand, but we do not see evidence that it allows for premium pricing.We think Under Armour’s international segment ($2.1 billion in fiscal 2025 sales) will produce growth over the long term, but the firm faces significant competition from global and native operators with established brands and distribution networks. According to Euromonitor, the combined sportswear markets in Asia-Pacific and Western Europe totaled about $176 billion at retail in 2024, greater than North America’s $165 billion. As Under Armour generated only about 36% of its revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa and Asia-Pacific in its fiscal 2025, we think it has room for growth, but it lacks strong retail partnerships and brand recognition.Under Armour expects about $100 million (or about 2% of sales) in additional costs in fiscal 2026 from higher US tariffs. Given its lack of pricing power and sales weakness, we believe it will be challenging for the company to offset the expense through price increases. David Swartz, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Under Armour here.VFMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.38Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: Very HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NoneIndustry: Apparel ManufacturingNext on our list of the best consumer cyclical stocks to buy now is VF. VF designs, produces, and distributes branded apparel, footwear, and accessories. The stock is trading at a 62% discount to our fair value estimate of $39.50 per share.VF has built a portfolio of solid brands in multiple apparel categories, but we do not believe it has a competitive advantage. Vans and Timberland have been drivers of value historically, but both have had uneven results over the past couple of years. The North Face has been more consistent, but we do not believe this brand alone can provide a moat for the company.The main goals of CEO Bracken Darrell’s Reinvent turnaround plan are to generate as much as $600 million in annual savings by fiscal 2028, reduce debt aggressively, operate more efficiently in the Americas, and improve Vans’ sales and profitability through product innovation and supply chain optimization. We think the aims of this plan are reasonable and will improve results. VF reported a woeful 5.9% adjusted operating margin in fiscal 2025, but we forecast its operating margins will gradually rise to above 8% by fiscal 2028 as it implements its strategic plan. Given disruption from tariffs and other issues, this projection is more conservative than the 10% operating margin target revealed at VF’s October 2024 analyst event.Vans ($2.3 billion in fiscal 2025 sales; 25% of total) has grown from its roots in action sports into an everyday athleisure brand but has lost momentum. We think VF’s plans will work in the medium term and believe Vans has room for growth, as it had less than 2% share in a global sports-inspired apparel and footwear market that was estimated at $166 billion at retail in 2024 (Euromonitor).Meanwhile, The North Face ($3.7 billion in fiscal 2024 sales; 39% of total) has been a consistent driver of profit growth due to product innovations, brand extensions, and expansions of its direct-to-consumer business. We believe it has grown beyond its outdoor roots and become a leading brand for winter coats and other categories.VF recently sold Dickies for $600 million. This sale simplifies VF’s portfolio and allows management to focus on brands with more potential.Regarding tariffs, VF anticipates about $60 million-$70 million in added cost of goods sold in fiscal 2026 after price increases and other mitigation efforts. It is not known if tariffs will depress demand for apparel and footwear. David Swartz, Morningstar senior analystRead more about VF here.
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Plus, which core building blocks every portfolio should have.
8m 25s
Sep 18, 2025
Watch
AdientMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.39Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: Very HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowIndustry: Auto PartsAdient, the leading seating supplier to the auto industry, began trading Oct. 31, 2016, when Johnson Controls spun off its automotive experience segment. The firm earns a narrow economic moat rating, and the shares of its stock look 61% undervalued relative to our $64 fair value estimate.Adient is the automotive seating business of Johnson Controls that was spun off to JCI shareholders in a taxable transaction Oct. 31, 2016. Adient leads the seating market with about 33% share globally. We think ignoring Adient just because it is an auto-parts supplier is shortsighted. Seating is one of the stickiest parts of the supplier sector since it is very difficult to take out an incumbent on a vehicle program, and automakers need suppliers that can consistently deliver high-quality seats in a just-in-time system throughout the world. Automakers have global platforms and are willing to pay for the right supplier rather than the supplier simply with the lowest price. We think the seating sector can benefit from autonomous and electric vehicles rather than be hurt by the change because AVs and EVs open up new seating configurations and possibly more electronics content in seats.We think some investors may need to reframe their perspective on seating and auto suppliers space by understanding that seating is not a commodity product and that firms such as Adient have a narrow economic moat with maintainable competitive advantages from three moat sources: intangible assets, switching costs, and cost advantage. It is normal in the seating space, for example, that an incumbent supplier gets the next generation of a vehicle program nearly 100% of the time so business is very sticky.At the end of fiscal 2021, Adient consolidated some of its Chinese seating joint ventures so it can pursue business with more Japanese, German, and startup electric vehicle firms in China. We think the company can increase operating margin including equity income over the next several years by restructuring its operations to be a better manufacturer and the joint venture sales brought good cash flow to reduce debt. Management also formed a joint venture with Boeing in January 2018 focused on business-class seats, of which Adient owns 19.9%. For patient investors who can wait for the company to restructure and poor metals contracts to expire in fiscal 2026 and fiscal 2027, we see Adient as a good turnaround story with improving free cash flow generation and occasional share repurchases. David Whiston, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Adient here. Bath & Body WorksMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.42Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowIndustry: Specialty RetailBath & Body Works is a specialty home fragrance and fragrant body care retailer operating under the Bath & Body Works, C.O. Bigelow, and White Barn brands. Trading 58% below our fair value estimate, Bath & Body Works has an economic moat rating of narrow. We think shares of this consumer cyclical stock are worth $62 per share.We believe Bath & Body Works has carved out a solid competitive edge in the sizable addressable markets in which it operates. The company’s strong brand intangible asset is supported by its leadership position across the bath and shower and candle air freshener industries in recent years, which has been bolstered by BBW’s quick response to consumer trends. Quantitatively, the narrow moat is reinforced by a 34% average return on invested capital excluding goodwill that we expect the business to generate over the next decade, well ahead of our 8% weighted average cost of capital estimate.Outside of the $19.9 billion haircare, $13.3 billion bath and shower, and roughly $700 million hand sanitizer markets in North America (Euromonitor), we think the beauty and other category adjacencies still offer a plethora of upside over time relative to BBW’s 2024 sales of $7.3 billion. The firm has outlined a compelling pipeline of opportunities to reach new consumers and stimulate sales conversion ahead. For example, not only can BBW add expansion products like shaving and facial care, but it can also expand its nascent penetration in categories like haircare, men’s care, lip, and laundry.This robust pipeline of opportunities should support average sales growth of 3% over fiscal 2025-29 (including a 2.6% hike in 2025). We forecast sales of $8.5 billion in 2029, which is contingent on average sales growth of 3% from North American stores, 3% from the digital channel, and 5% from international opportunities. This should be supported by elevated engagement with the brand, as there is more than 80% brand awareness among women 18-59 years old (and 60% of men in the same cohort). Longer-term, operating margins should remain in the high teens (versus a 16.3% estimate in 2025) as the firm focuses on elevating the experience through digital and physical lines. With consumer spending continuing to center around experiences, BBW should see solid demand trends ahead, with our forecast for organic growth above the less than 2% growth projection (Euromonitor) for the North American beauty and personal care industry during 2025-29. Growth could be faster with new line extensions. Jaime M. Katz, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Bath & Body Works here.Caesars EntertainmentMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.43Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NoneIndustry: Resorts & CasinosNext on our list of the best consumer cyclical stocks to buy now, Caesars Entertainment includes about 50 domestic gaming properties across the Las Vegas (49% of 2024 EBITDAR before corporate expenses) and regional (46%) markets. This cheap stock looks 57% undervalued and has a fair value estimate of $61 per share.Although travel and gaming demand could be negatively affected by tariff policy in the near term, we estimate Caesars holds a leading high-single-digit revenue share of the $72 billion domestic commercial casino gaming market. The Eldorado acquisition in 2020 roughly doubled the company’s US portfolio to about 50 properties, while lifting its loyalty membership to over 60 million from 55 million. Caesars has realized over $1 billion in combined sales and cost synergies from its July 2020 merger with Eldorado, representing around a 30% increase to pro forma 2019 EBITDAR. Legacy Eldorado successfully integrated the Isle of Capri and Tropicana acquisitions in 2017 and 2018, respectively, with both deals driving about a 30% return on investment, based on our calculation.Despite this successful acquisition record, we don’t believe Las Vegas and other US gaming regions contribute to a moat for Caesars. US gaming demand is lower than in Asian regions like Macao and Singapore, where the propensity to gamble is much higher. Also, the 1,000 commercial and tribal casinos in the US serve a total population of 340 million, well in excess of the 30 and two casinos found in Macao and Singapore, respectively, with Chinese and Singaporean populations of 1.4 billion and 6 million. We see no additional licenses in Macao and Singapore for the foreseeable future.However, Caesars’ 2024 digital revenue growth of 20% and EBITDA margin of 10% show that the company is positioned to benefit in a US online gaming market that we see reaching $56 billion by 2030 from $24 billion in 2024. Despite competition from ESPN Bet, DraftKings, FanDuel, MGM, Fanatics, and others, we forecast 20% of Caesars’ total sales will be generated from online gaming by 2030. Dan Wasiolek, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Caesars Entertainment here.Kohl’sMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.43Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: Very HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NoneIndustry: Department StoresKohl’s operates about 1,150 department stores in 49 states that sell moderately priced private-label and national brand clothing, shoes, accessories, cosmetics, and home furnishings. This affordable consumer cyclical stock looks 57% undervalued and has a fair value estimate of $40 per share.We assign a no-moat rating to Kohl’s, which has had consistently declining sales over the past 10 years. We think its competitors, such as wide-moat Amazon and other online sellers, discount, and specialty retailers, will continue to siphon apparel sales from it and other department stores. Thus, while Kohl’s has responded to threats with increased e-commerce, improved merchandising, and an enhanced loyalty program, we project its operating margins in the midsingle digits in the long run, well below prepandemic levels.Kohl’s has strengths, including its reputation for reasonable prices, off-mall locations, and more than 30 million loyalty members. Moreover, its annual e-commerce sales have increased from about $700 million in 2010 to more than $4 billion at present. However, it is still a physical store-based business, and both store visitation and sales per square foot have declined steadily over the past 15 years. We believe Kohl’s large fleet of big-box stores is unnecessary in an increasingly fragmented market.Adding to its woes, Kohl’s is operating with an interim CEO, former Walmart executive Michael Bender, after its former leader was let go after less than four months. The firm is in desperate need of stability; Bender is its fifth CEO in the last decade. Bender and, eventually, Kohl’s next permanent CEO will likely focus on the company’s merchandising and maintaining its reputation for quality and value. However, the firm has been implementing turnaround plans for years and nothing has really worked. In 2021, it set long-term goals of operating margins of 7%-8% and EPS growth in the mid- to high-single digits, but we think it will struggle to achieve these goals given its lack of a competitive edge.Meanwhile, Kohl’s faces tariff risk as most of its merchandise is either imported by it or its vendors. The firm may be able to mitigate some of the additional cost over time, but we anticipate some margin compression in the short run at least.After a proxy battle and a failed attempt to sell the company in 2022, Kohl’s remains vulnerable to activist investors. The value of its owned real estate is potentially greater than its current enterprise value. David Swartz, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Kohl’s here. Winnebago IndustriesMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.45Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: Very HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NoneIndustry: Recreational VehiclesWinnebago Industries manufactures Class A, B, and C motor homes along with towables, customized specialty vehicles, boats, and parts. The stock is trading at a 55% discount to our fair value estimate of $75 per share.Winnebago, which reinvented itself under CEO Mike Happe with the November 2016 acquisition of high-end towable maker Grand Design, sees itself as a leading outdoor lifestyle firm. It now has a marine segment with Chris-Craft and Barletta. Towables is an area the company had long wanted to grow in but had remained very small since acquiring SunnyBrook in 2011. Winnebago’s North American towables share is approximately 10%, up from under 2% before Grand Design, so we see a long growth runway if it can continue to chip at Thor’s and Forest River’s roughly 80% combined share. In fiscal 2024, towables were about 44% of total revenue, compared with just 9% in fiscal 2016. Marine was 11% of fiscal 2024 sales, and Barletta is now the number-three brand in aluminum pontoons. Management wants non-RV revenue to be 15%-20% of total sales.Leadership identifies opportunities to grow with products in new segments, such as off-roading and lower price points (but not the most affordable in a segment). Grand Design expansion into motor homes in fiscal 2024 should boost RV market share (11.2% in fiscal 2024). Models are no longer cloned, which should help dealer profitability, and are positioned around a good, better, best framework. A unit is not manufactured until it has an order, which should mean lower, but not zero, discounting. Acquisitions in the over $800 billion outdoor activity market will likely only be for high-end brands such as Grand Design, Chris-Craft, Newmar, and Barletta. Industry data shows that 11.2 million US households owned a RV in 2020, up from 6.9 million in 2001. The 2025 trade organization data reveals that the age mix of these owners is 62% under 55 and 16% are 18-34. Of owners, 34% have a household income over $100,000. Hispanic and Black consumers were 25% of campers in 2020, up from 8% in 2012, so Winnebago has a wide consumer base to tap into if it executes right. We think Winnebago’s brand equity gives it a good shot at capitalizing on these trends. David Whiston, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Winnebago Industries here.
Should You Hold Cash Investments After the Fed Cuts Interest Rates?
Plus, how investors should think about Oracle’s phenomenal outlook.
17m 12s
Sep 18, 2025
Watch
Capri HoldingsMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.48Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: Very HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NoneIndustry: Luxury GoodsCapri Holdings is a marketer, distributor, and retailer of upscale accessories and apparel in the Americas, Europe, and Asia. This affordable consumer cyclical stock looks 52% undervalued and has a fair value estimate of $45 per share.Capri is led by Michael Kors (68% of fiscal 2025 sales), a major brand in the attractive midtier handbag market. However, we believe the label lacks the brand strength to provide an economic moat for Capri, rating poorly on the criteria that Morningstar uses to evaluate luxury brands, such as conspicuousness of consumption, pricing power, and control over distribution. Powered by store openings and retail expansion during 2010-15, Michael Kors became one of the largest American handbag producers in sales and units. However, the brand’s sales are projected at less than $3 billion in fiscal 2026, down from a peak of $4.7 billion in fiscal 2016, due to markdowns at third-party retail, store closures, and weakness in some categories. While Capri has reduced the distribution of the label to limit discounting of its bags, it faces challenges such as slowing consumer spending on apparel and accessories, intense competition, and lower wholesale orders.Given that the brand generates essentially all the company’s profit, Capri’s focus must be on improving Michael Kors’ standing with consumers. We think the label has growth potential in China as it is underpenetrated in the market relative to comparable apparel and accessories brands. Although China’s luxury market has been weak lately, it possesses the largest addressable population in the long run (Bain).Prior to the pandemic, Capri spent $3.4 billion to purchase Jimmy Choo and Versace to boost its status as a luxury house and reduce its dependence on Michael Kors. This strategy has largely failed, and Capri has agreed to sell Versace to narrow-moat Prada for $1.375 billion, a discount from its original purchase price of more than $2 billion. Meanwhile, Jimmy Choo is unprofitable, and sales have been declining. Plans for the brand include new footwear styles and a greater focus on accessories.Capri faces an estimated $85 million in higher tariff expenses in fiscal 2026. As both Michael Kors and Jimmy Choo are struggling and lack pricing power, we think these extra costs can only be partially offset through cost cuts, supply chain changes, and limited price hikes. David Swartz, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Capri Holdings here.CarMaxMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.50Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowIndustry: Auto & Truck DealershipsNext on our list of the best consumer cyclical stocks to buy now, CarMax sells, finances, and services used and new cars through a chain of around 250 used retail stores. The firm earns a narrow economic moat rating, and the shares of its stock look 50% undervalued relative to our $120 fair value estimate.CarMax’s revenue has increased at a compound annual rate of 10.8% since fiscal 2000 because of the success of customer-friendly sales practices and use of information technology. We think the firm will eventually reach its over 5% zero to 10-year-old vehicle market share target, up from 3.7% in calendar 2023 and 2024. Revenue of at least $33 billion should come before reaching another goal of selling a combined 2 million annual retail and auction units.Competing dealerships have tried no-haggle pricing and failed because their salesforces are trained to focus on selling vehicles that earn the highest possible gross profit rather than vehicles that customers actually want or need. A traditional dealership relies on profits from service to offset the typically lower margins it gets on new-vehicle sales. CarMax does not hire salespeople from the auto industry, and salespeople receive the same commission regardless of the vehicle sold. They do not even know the profit on the vehicle sold. The CarMax customer stays with the same salesperson throughout the transaction rather than being passed off to a finance department, receiving a buying experience that is hard to match at a dealership. This focus on customer satisfaction, combined with scale advantages, a wide inventory selection, and extensive pricing data, creates a narrow economic moat.Management has said repeatedly that it will give any further improvements in operating expenses back to the customer as a price decrease instead of seeking higher gross margins. We like this strategy; CarMax’s scale allows it to price below smaller dealerships, and lowering prices should increase comparable-store sales. The company can often make up any lost margin via its highly profitable finance arm, CarMax Auto Finance. CAF finances over 40% of unit sales. The company’s omnichannel program, which in fiscal 2025 made up 66% of the nearly 800,000 retail units sold, enables consumers to shop in any combination of digital and in store that they like and should allow for fewer store openings over time. These factors should keep the company growing for years, despite more competition from franchised dealers and online startups. David Whiston, Morningstar senior analystRead more about CarMax here.Lululemon AthleticaMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.58Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowIndustry: Apparel RetailLululemon Athletica designs, distributes, and markets athletic apparel, footwear, and accessories for women, men, and girls. Lululemon Athletica is an affordable consumer cyclical stock, trading at a 42% discount to our fair value estimate of $295 per share. The retail company earns a narrow economic moat rating.We think Lululemon has a solid plan to expand its product assortment and geographic reach while building its core business. While many firms are looking to compete in athleisure, we believe Lululemon will continue to achieve premium pricing due to the brand’s popularity and the styling and quality of its products. Our narrow moat rating is based on the company’s intangible brand asset.We view the five-year plan laid out at Lululemon’s April 2022 investor event as sound. Its three priorities are product innovation, e-commerce, and international expansion. We think product innovation is critical, as many competitors sell women’s leggings and other athleisure items of similar quality. Thus, Lululemon must introduce new fabrics and technology to hold share in this critical category. The firm also plans to add to its men’s assortment (24% of 2024 revenue) and expand its nascent athletic footwear line. While we believe these categories fit the Lululemon brand, they also bring it into direct competition with athletic apparel firms like Nike.We see an opportunity for Lululemon to expand outside its home region. Sales outside the Americas accounted for just 25% of 2024’s total, but this was up from 16% just two years prior. We believe Lululemon is building its brand overseas and has a large opportunity for new stores and larger online sales in China, the second-largest activewear market. We project the firm will have more than 170 stores in mainland China by the end of 2025, an increase of about 75% from the end of 2022. In 2034, we forecast Lululemon’s sales outside the Americas will reach $10 billion (up from $2.7 billion in 2024) and account for nearly half its total sales.Like others in its space, Lululemon outsources its production to factories in Asia. Thus, it is exposed to higher tariffs on US imports. Tariffs are expected to have a 220-basis-point negative impact on the gross margin in 2025. Over time, we think the company can offset some, but not all, of the added costs with price increases and supply chain changes. David Swartz, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Lululemon Athletica here. Yum ChinaMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.58Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: WideIndustry: RestaurantsWith more than 16,000 units and almost USD 12 billion in systemwide sales in 2024, Yum China is the largest restaurant operator in China. Yum China is another affordable consumer cyclical stock, trading at a 42% discount to our fair value estimate of $76 per share. The restaurant earns a wide economic moat rating.The Chinese restaurant sector continues to face headwinds from the real estate downturn and a lack of significant economic stimulus, affecting consumer spending. In this environment, we recommend that investors focus on companies that possess the scale to be more aggressive on pricing, as value-oriented players typically perform better during economic downturns. A healthy balance sheet is also crucial.Yum China is well-positioned to gain share in the fragmented USD 700 billion Chinese restaurant market. Despite the current headwinds, we remain confident in the long-term growth of the quick-service restaurant segment, driven by three secular trends: (1) the increasing number of office-based workers, (2) rising disposable incomes, and (3) shrinking family sizes.Yum China’s scale advantages translate into competitive pricing and consistent quality and service, building trust with consumers seeking reliable dining experiences. This positions the company to capture share in a market where chained restaurants represent only 20% of industry spending, compared with a 35% global average and 60% in the US.While nascent opportunities like Lavazza and Huang Ji Huang have received fewer mentions recently, likely due to the economic slowdown, we believe they still offer compelling long-term prospects. This stems from their differentiated offerings, growth potential upon economic recovery, and ability to leverage the group’s in-house supply chain to reduce food costs.We expect the company to achieve its 2024-26 targets, which include: (1) average annual net unit growth of 1,800 restaurants, (2) double-digit EPS CAGR, and (3) USD 1.5 billion in annual shareholder returns. While acknowledging the potential for further economic slowdown and tempered restaurant market growth, management plans to gain share by: (1) expanding into lower-tier cities lacking a KFC presence; (2) broadening Pizza Hut’s reach into cities with KFC but not Pizza Hut, while converting underperforming units to the lower-priced Wow format, and (3) accelerating franchisee expansion in strategic locations like highway centers, hospitals, and college campuses. Ivan Su, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Yum China here.Gildan ActivewearMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.59Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowIndustry: Apparel ManufacturingApparel manufacturing company Gildan Activewear rounds out our list of best consumer cyclical stocks to buy now. Gildan is a vertically integrated designer and manufacturer of basic apparel, including T-shirts, underwear, socks, and hosiery. The stock is 41% undervalued relative to our fair value estimate of $93 per share.We assign Gildan a narrow moat rating based on a cost advantage. We believe the company has built an efficient supply chain that differentiates it from competitors. Although it is difficult to attain a cost-based edge in the apparel industry, we believe Gildan’s investments in its vertically integrated supply chain have allowed it to gain one in the production and distribution of T-shirts and fleece for the North American printwear industry. The market has become a highly profitable one as Gildan has relentlessly lowered costs while gaining share.Gildan’s competitive advantage lies in its ownership of manufacturing facilities, which produce more than 90% of its revenue. As the owner, Gildan has control over its process, costs, and technology. Over the past 20 years, it has spent over USD 2 billion on capital expenditures and made many acquisitions to operate efficiently. In contrast, nearly all other multinational apparel firms, including those in fast fashion, choose to outsource much or all their production to third-party factories, many of which are in Asia. We attribute the difference in strategy to Gildan’s high exposure to North America printwear, a market in which low costs and supply chain speed are paramount. The company has 60%-80% share in the printwear basics category, and we believe that its production cost advantage has grown over time. As evidence, its adjusted operating margin was 21% in 2024, up from 14% in 2019.The Gildan Sustainable Growth strategy focuses on capacity-driven growth through investment in Bangladesh, product innovation, and sustainability. Higher tariffs complicate Gildan’s Bangladesh plan, but the firm can shift some production to its plants in Latin America and push through small price increases.Gildan’s acquisition of Hanesbrands will greatly improve the firm’s flailing consumer operations and strengthen its grip on printwear basics. In addition, Gildan has excess capacity that it can use for acquired products. Further, the firm anticipates opportunities to improve manufacturing efficiency in acquired factories. We regard this as a realistic expectation as Hanesbrands has underinvested in its plants over a long period. David Swartz, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Gildan Activewear here.How to Find More of the Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to BuyInvestors who’d like to extend their search for top consumer cyclical stocks can do the following:Review Morningstar’s comprehensive list of consumer cyclical stocks to investigate further.Stay up to date on the consumer cyclical sector’s performance, key earnings reports, and more with Morningstar’s consumer cyclical sector page.Read Morningstar’s Guide to Stock Investing to learn how our approach to investing can inform your stock-picking process.Use the Morningstar Investor screener to build a shortlist of consumer cyclical stocks to research and watch.
The author or authors own shares in one or more securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Stocks
View All
CarMax Earnings: Magnitude of Consumers’ Unwillingness to Buy Is a Negative Surprise Lowering our fair value estimate on CarMax stock as macro headwinds hit.
David Whiston, CFA, CPA, CFE Sep 25, 2025
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 25, 2025
Marvell: Bullish Comments from CEO Bring Market Closer in Alignment With Our Thesis The comments affirmed our belief that Marvell is not going to lose artificial intelligence accelerator revenue next year.
William Kerwin, CFA Sep 25, 2025
About the Authors
View All Authors
Margaret Giles Editor
More from Author
Margaret Giles is a senior editor of content development for Morningstar.
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 25, 2025
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Christine Benz Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now
Margaret Giles Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Defensive Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 22, 2025
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio
Christine Benz Sep 18, 2025
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
The Best Communication-Services Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 15, 2025
Tori Brovet Content Development Editor
More from Author
Tori Brovet is a content development editor for Morningstar.
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now
Margaret Giles Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Defensive Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 22, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
Inherited IRAs: What to Know About Taxes, RMDs, and More
Tori Brovet Sep 15, 2025
The Best Basic Materials Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 12, 2025
The Best AI Stocks to Buy Now
Tori Brovet Sep 11, 2025
The Best Healthcare Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 10, 2025
The Best Bond Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 9, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Fixed-Income Investing
Tori Brovet Sep 8, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility