The Open Source Initiative's executive director departs - what it means for the OSAID debate | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
The Open Source Initiative's executive director departs - what it means for the OSAID debate
Will the OSI continue with its current AI definition path? This issue continues to be debated in both AI and open-source circles.
Written by
Steven Vaughan-Nichols, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 7:52 a.m. PT
Iana Kunitsa/Moment/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysStefano Maffulli, the OSI's first executive director, is leaving.His biggest challenge was working on AI and open source software.Under his leadership, the OSI created the Open-Source AI Definition.The Open Source Initiative (OSI) is facing a major leadership transition as it launches the search for a new executive director.Stefano Maffulli, the group's first executive director, is set to step down in October to pursue work in open-source AI and data governance. Under Maffulli's leadership since 2021, OSI moved from a volunteer-centric group to a globally recognized nonprofit, notably releasing the Open Source AI Definition (OSAID) 1.0, which, like the name suggests, established a standard for open-source AI licensing.The OSI, founded in February 1998, successfully advocated for open-source principles and stewarded the Open Source Definition (OSD). For the last few years, however, the organization has grown slowly, even though new open-source challenges have emerged. When Maffulli took the position as the organization's first executive director, he faced the rise of difficult issues. Also: Linus Torvalds warns Linux devs: Stop cluttering patches with automated, useless linksAs Maffulli said when he was appointed, "Open source software is everywhere, but its definition is constantly being challenged. The zombies of shared source, limited-use, and proprietary software are emerging from the graves." When he took the job in 2021, he recalled, "Some people thought OSI's work was done. The Open Source Definition had 'won,' embraced even by organizations that once resisted it." He went on to say they thought, "there was nothing left to do. I didn't see it that way."He was right. Open source challenges in the 2020sFor example, as Maffulli pointed out, the launch of the Apple Store for the iPhone in 2008 made it impossible for users to modify and run open-source applications on the smartphone. In October 2021, GitHub announced Copilot. Maffulli said it posed an even bigger challenge: "In a world where systems aren't traditionally 'programmed,' what does 'source code' mean?"It would be this last issue, the role of AI in open source, that would bedevil the OSI for years. Maffulli's tenure culminated in the release of OSAID 1.0, a widely endorsed framework defining what constitutes an "Open Source AI." According to the official OSI definition, open-source AI systems must grant users the freedom to use, study, modify, and share the system -- including models, weights, and code -- for any purpose. However, pragmatists influenced the definition to allow for sufficiently detailed information about the data used for training, instead of requiring complete open access to datasets. This compromise balances transparency against legal and ethical concerns, such as proprietary or sensitive data.Also: AI is creeping into the Linux kernel - and official policy is needed ASAPLeading open source figures and foundations, including Mozilla, SUSE, Bloomberg Engineering, and the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, have endorsed the OSAID. Critics and supporters alike acknowledge its importance as a foundation for AI licensing, transparency, and code accessibility. That said, the OSI freely admits that the OSAID is "a work in progress." This view is echoed across academic, industry, and policy circles. The consensus is that the definition represents a significant, if imperfect, advance for open-source principles in the complex world of AI.Indeed, many open-source developers and leaders, such as Richard Fontana, Red Hat's principal commercial counsel, disagree with this definition. They want the data and weights to be more open than they are under the OSAID 1.0.  As Luca Antiga, CTO at AI agent company Lightning, and a top contributor to the vital AI library PyTorch, wrote in The New Stack, by not incorporating weights into the OSAID, "The OSI is leaving a gaping hole that will make licenses less effective in determining whether OSI-licensed AI systems can be adopted in real-world contexts." Where OSAID goes from hereThey're not alone with such concerns. Peter Zaitsev, CEO of the open-source data company Percona, believes "OSI continues with its flawed 'one size fits all' approach rather than helping to better define the 'spectrum' for open source and AI." In addition, when "training data is not freely available for everyone, it is not the same as 'open source.'" This debate shows every sign of continuing. The new OSI Executive Director will need to deal with these issues.What both supporters and opponents of the OSAID can agree on is that many AI companies, such as Meta with Llama, X with Grok, and Microsoft's Phi-2, claim to be open source, but they're not. They want to redefine open-source AI for their own profits while restricting anyone else from commercially using their code, weights, and data. Also: You can get Nvidia's CUDA on three popular enterprise Linux distros now - why it mattersOSI's board is committed to continuing its emphasis on licensing, policy, and building the future of open source AI. Deborah Bryant has been named interim executive director during the transition. The organization credits Maffulli for modernizing its operations, expanding international partnerships, and strengthening OSI's voice in global technology policy. As Tracy Hinds, chair of the OSI board of directors, said in a statement, "Stefano helped build a strong and resilient foundation for OSI during a time of extraordinary change in the tech world. We are grateful for his dedication to OSI's mission and to the global open source community. The board is committed to maintaining our course and continuing the important work underway -- especially around licensing, policy, and the future of open source AI."Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Linus Torvalds warns Linux devs: Stop cluttering patches with automated, useless links
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Looking for a few good AI leaders - are you ready?
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use