When her car ran out of gas, help came from a homeless encampment : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
When her car ran out of gas, help came from a homeless encampment When Juli Cobb's car ran out of gas in the middle of the road, three men from a nearby homeless encampment rushed over to push her car to safety.
Special Series My Unsung Hero
Stories of people whose kindness left a lasting impression
When her car ran out of gas, help came from a homeless encampment
September 17, 20255:00 AM ET
Heard on
All Things Considered
By
Laura Kwerel
When her car ran out of gas, help came from a homeless encampment
Listen
·
2:32
2:32
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5542002/nx-s1-9454769" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Juli Cobb in 2024.
Juli Cobb
hide caption
toggle caption
Juli Cobb
This story is part of the My Unsung Hero series, from the Hidden Brain team. It features stories of people whose kindness left a lasting impression on someone else. Juli Cobb, a creative arts teacher in Albuquerque, N.M., was driving home from work one day this year when she ran out of gas. Her car sputtered to a stop in the middle of the road near a crowded homeless encampment under the freeway. "I was sitting there so vulnerable, and I was anxious," Cobb said. "But this man ran up to me from under the bridge and asked me if I needed help."
Sponsor Message
She explained what had happened. He told her he would try to help, but first he needed to get her car out of the road.
My Unsung Hero
Alone in a foreign country, a young woman is saved by two strangers
"He single-handedly tried to push me," Cobb recalled. "And I couldn't unlock the steering and it wasn't moving. Then two other men ran over to help and again [asked], 'Can we help you?' and 'What's going on?'" One man, careful not to alarm her, asked whether he could reach through the window to check the steering column. She agreed, and he managed to unlock it. As this was happening, cars swerved by, trying not to hit them. At one point, the group directed a tractor trailer to maneuver around her car. Eventually, the three men were able to move her car out of the road.
The first man — the one who had tried to push her car alone — offered to fetch gas with his fuel can. She gave him some money, and he set off on his bike. Cobb was grateful but shaken, and she just wanted to get home. Then one of the men introduced himself as Dominic. "He said, 'This is a dangerous place. There are some people that would take advantage of this situation. Have you called anybody?'" Cobb remembered.
My Unsung Hero
Leaves piled up after her husband's injury. Then a friend showed up with a rake
"I said, 'I'm calling my daughter right now.' And he said, 'I will stay here with you.'" And he did. Cobb never had to step out of her car. Soon the man on his bike returned with gas and poured it into her tank, and she got the car started. Not long after, Cobb was home. But the generosity of the three men has stayed with her. "That these men — who didn't ask for anything and really are on the street and trying to survive, don't know where their next meal is coming from probably — just ran over to help. So, that was pretty impactful on me."
Sponsor Message
My Unsung Hero is also a podcast — new episodes are released every Tuesday. To share the story of your unsung hero with the Hidden Brain team, record a voice memo on your phone and send it to myunsunghero@hiddenbrain.org.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor