Trump suggests U.S. troops could return to Afghan base over China concerns : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Trump suggests U.S. troops could return to Afghan base over China concerns Trump floated the idea during a press conference with British Prime Minister Keir Starmer as he wrapped up a state visit to the U.K. and tied it to the need for the U.S. to counter its top rival, China.
World
Trump suggests U.S. troops could return to Afghan base over China concerns
Updated September 19, 20253:52 AM ET
Originally published September 18, 20252:34 PM ET
By
The Associated Press
FILE - A gate is seen at the Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, Friday, June 25, 2021. President Donald Trump has suggested he's working to reestablish a U.S. presence at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan. That comes four years after America's chaotic withdrawal from the country left the base in the Taliban's hands.
Rahmat Gul/AP/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Rahmat Gul/AP/AP
President Donald Trump on Thursday suggested that he is working to reestablish a U.S. presence at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, four years after America's chaotic withdrawal from the country left the base in the Taliban's hands. Trump floated the idea during a press conference with British Prime Minister Keir Starmer as he wrapped up a state visit to the U.K. and tied it to the need for the U.S. to counter its top rival, China. "We're trying to get it back," Trump said of the base in an aside to a question about ending Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Sponsor Message
While Trump described his call for the U.S. military to reestablish a position in Afghanistan as "breaking news," the Republican president has previously raised the idea. The White House did not immediately respond to questions about whether it or the Pentagon has done any planning around returning to the sprawling air base, which was central to America's longest war. Trump has seized on the U.S. withdrawal under Biden During his first presidency, Trump set the terms for the U.S. withdrawal by negotiating a deal with the Taliban. The 20-year conflict came to an end in disquieting fashion under President Joe Biden: The U.S.-backed Afghan government collapsed, a grisly bombing killed 13 U.S. troops and 170 others, and thousands of desperate Afghans descended on Kabul's airport in search of a way out before the final U.S. aircraft departed over the Hindu Kush. The Afghanistan debacle was a major setback just eight months into Biden's Democratic presidency that he struggled to recover from.
National Security
As U.S. Forces Leave Afghanistan, The Country's Future Hangs In The Balance
Biden's Republican detractors, including Trump, seized on it as a signal moment in a failed presidency. Those criticisms have persisted into the present day, including as recently as last week, when Trump claimed the move emboldened Russian President Vladimir Putin to invade Ukraine in February 2022. "He would have never done what he did, except that he didn't respect the leadership of the United States," Trump said, speaking of Putin. "They just went through the Afghanistan total disaster for no reason whatsoever. We were going to leave Afghanistan, but we were going to leave it with strength and dignity. We were going to keep Bagram Air Base — one of the biggest air bases in the world. We gave it to them for nothing."
Sponsor Message
Asked again about the proposal hours later on Air Force One, Trump offered no details but again bashed Biden for "gross incompetence" and said the base should have "never been given back." "It's one of the most powerful bases in the world in terms of runway strength and length," he said. "You can land anything on there. You can land a planet on top of it." No clarity if there have been discussions with the Taliban about Bagram It is unclear if the U.S. has any new direct or indirect conversations with the Taliban government about returning to the country. But Trump hinted that the Taliban, who have struggled with an economic crisis, international legitimacy, internal rifts and rival militant groups since their return to power in 2021, could be game to allow the U.S. military to return.
Asia
U.S. Forces Have Left Afghanistan's Bagram Airfield As 20-Year War Winds Down
"We're trying to get it back because they need things from us," Trump said of the Taliban. The president repeated his view that a U.S. presence at Bagram is of value because of its proximity to China, the most significant economic and military competitor to the United States. "But one of the reasons we want that base is, as you know, it's an hour away from where China makes its nuclear weapons," Trump said. "So a lot of things are happening." Late Thursday, Zakir Jalaly, an official at the Taliban Foreign Ministry, dismissed the idea of the U.S. returning to Bagram. "Afghanistan and the U.S. need to interact with each other and can have economic and political relations based on mutual respect and common interests," Jalaly said on the social platform X. "The Afghans have not accepted a military presence in history, and this possibility was completely rejected during the Doha talks and agreement, but the door is open for further interaction."
Sponsor Message
While the U.S. and the Taliban have no formal diplomatic ties, the sides have had hostage conversations. An American man who was abducted more than two years ago while traveling through Afghanistan as a tourist was released by the Taliban in March. Last week, the Taliban also said they reached an agreement with U.S. envoys on an exchange of prisoners as part of an effort to normalize relations between the United States and Afghanistan. The Taliban gave no details of a detainee swap, and the White House did not comment on the meeting in Kabul or the results described in a Taliban statement. The Taliban released photographs from their talks, showing their foreign minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, with Trump's special envoy for hostage response, Adam Boehler. Officials at U.S. Central Command in the Middle East and the Pentagon, including Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth's office, referred questions about reestablishing a presence at Bagram to the White House.
China
Afghan war
Afghanistan
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor