I Vibe-Coded an App on Maternity Leave. Here's What It Taught Me - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
AI
I'm an HR professional who vibe-coded an app while my baby slept. I don't want to be a parent or employee who falls behind.
As told to
Lee Chong Ming
Laura Zaccaria, an HR professional and new mom, taught herself to build an AI-assisted web app while on six months of maternity leave.
Laura Zaccaria
2025-09-22T00:00:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
An HR professional with no coding background learnt to vibe-code during maternity leave.
Between baby naps, Laura Zaccaria built a meal planning app — and found out why AI skills can't wait.
She tells BI the experience allowed her to evolve as both a mother and an employee.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with Laura Zaccaria, a Singapore-based HR professional and new mom who taught herself to build an AI-assisted web app while on six months of maternity leave. It's been edited for length and clarity.
I've never studied anything related to coding.My husband started to dabble with vibe coding. He replicated my not-for-profit yoga organization website and sent me the link. He was like, "See what you can do now in a couple of hours?" I was quite intrigued.
He was going to sign up for a class called Code with AI in June. He asked me, "Why don't you come with me?"I suppose what he was trying to do was nudge me into exploring something else. Becoming a mother was a very life-altering experience — suddenly, my baby became the center of my world.I was very intimidated because I didn't know anything about coding and how to use ChatGPT. I didn't even have a personal laptop to install the software needed, so I bought one for this class.
It's a weekend thing and a few hours from my baby, but we have help at home. So, I went along with him. It's a capsule of time before going back to work, and in a career, you rarely get that.Maternity leave became my time to learn and evolveAs a new mom, I started to think about my baby's weaning — he's starting to eat solid food. I thought, How are we going to plan all the meals when I go back to work? Maybe I'll try to build something to tackle that: a family meal planner.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
I kept working on it after the course, mostly in the evenings or when the baby was napping. On weekends, my husband would take the baby away for a couple of hours or just play with him so I could keep working on it.
It kept my brain active in a different way. When I went on leave, I unplugged from corporate life and was fully focused on caring for a small human. That uses such a different part of your brain.Picking up new skills gave me confidence that I can continue to evolve. Being a mom is not my sole identity.AI is like an over-enthusiastic internWhen I was coding, I mainly used Cursor.
If I got stuck, I'd just ask Cursor, and it would tell me, "Here's what you can do, here's where to look." It wasn't just building the app — it was also guiding me.I faced a technical hurdle with sign-ups and confirmation emails. There were limitations to how many emails the database could send and how customizable they were. When my husband, my brother, and friends tried to test the app, we hit those limits fast.Eventually I had to find another platform to handle verification emails and password resets, then integrate it as another layer on top. It sounds basic, but before building this I never thought twice about how that logic actually works.
Sometimes, you get stuck in a loop. Generative AI can be like a young, over-enthusiastic intern. You need to know when to pause and ask yourself: Where was I not clear? And sometimes it's OK to scrap the whole conversation and start afresh.A few times, what Cursor created was not what I wanted. I realized I hadn't phrased things properly, or I had asked for something too big. Then I'd have to break it down again. That was probably the main skill I picked up, which I now use not just for building an app but for any other generative AI tool.I don't want to be a parent or employee who falls behindWhat this made me realize is how far the technology has come.
People in tech already know this — I have friends at places like Workday, Salesforce, Google, and Meta, and they're under a lot of pressure from their employers to pick up these skills because they have to deploy these solutions.I was astonished by how quickly things were improving, even while I was building my app.Some things became easier to unlock week by week. It made me want to stay up to speed, because I'm sure that what I learned now will be semi-obsolete in just a couple of months.
Before, if someone said AI is coming for your job, I might have panicked. But once you learn about it, it becomes less daunting.And with my baby, I know the tools he grows up with will be completely different from what I had, or what my parents had. It emphasized that we need to keep up so that we can understand the world he'll grow up in.When I was younger and mobile phones came out, my parents were shocked: What is a smartphone? What do you even do with apps? I hope I won't be like that. I want to understand what my son is using, how he's learning, and the world he'll grow up in.
Do you have a story to share about vibe-coding? Contact this reporter at cmlee@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
as told to
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account