What Builds True Customer Loyalty? 6 Business Leaders Share Their Best Tips. | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Growing a Business
If You Don't Know These 6 Industry-Backed Secrets, You're Probably Losing Customers Every Day
What builds true customer loyalty? We asked six leaders to share what made the most difference in their businesses.
By
Frances Dodds
Aug 14, 2025
Share
Copy
This story appears in the
July 2025
issue of
Entrepreneur.
Subscribe »
Pete Ryan
Customer loyalty is tough to earn and even harder to keep.You want your customers to feel heard and valued, but it's not always simple. We asked six business leaders from six successful companies to share the strategies they use to keep customers happy, engaged and coming back for more. No matter your industry, these insights are practical, impactful and worth borrowing.1. Take the hit in hard times."Loyalty is built not during times of success, but when things don't go as planned. One client's business model needed to pivot due to unforeseen challenges. Despite the significant cost to us, we helped them restructure their team and adapt their strategy, at no additional charge. This decision reinforced our long-term commitment to the relationship, and as a result, that client has since expanded their team with us by 5X and continues to grow the scope of services they trust us with." — ALEX ROSS, cofounder and chief operating officer, Horatio
2. Lean into unexpected places."In the summer of 2023, a TikTok trend exploded our business and created an entirely new consumer set. It was called the 'flat belly challenge,' and in it, women in southern states showed each other that if they drank kombucha on an empty stomach for seven days, they felt less bloated. It yielded a huge uptick in sales at Aldi and Walmart, places we hadn't considered to be hotbeds of demand for kombucha. It taught me that loyalty can come from anywhere — we can't be too precious about who we target or speak to — and that real, actual benefits can be a driving force." — CHARLOTTE MOSTAED, chief marketing officer, Health-Ade Related: Want Loyal Customers? Try These 5 Ways to Inspire Them
3. Make customers feel heard."A product like tea is tied to experience, ritual, and the feeling it brings people. So when we make customers feel heard and valued, they keep coming back. Once, a longtime customer reached out about their favorite tea we had discontinued. They were disappointed. So we took the time to understand what they loved about it and our team then curated a selection of teas that closely matched what they were looking for. They were so moved by the effort that they became an even more loyal customer, and shared their experience with others." — STEVE SCHWARTZ, founder, master blender, and CEO, Art of Tea4. Relentlessly improve your product."We've always been hyperfocused on establishing a deep understanding of our customer and providing purpose-driven products that embody our 'fewer, better' ethos. We've done this by constantly listening to our audience and evolving our product selection, which allows us to foster long-term relationships. A great example is our iconic System Tote. While it's been a bestseller for years, we've refined it over time to grow with our customers and consistently exceed expectations." — KARLA GALLARDO, cofounder, CuyanaRelated: Your Business Doesn't Need to Be Perfect — Here's How Customer Loyalty Really Works5. Treat customers like partners."When we started out, barely anyone in our industry offered transparent pricing. But we committed to never nickel-and-diming customers and publishing our prices online. We answer the phone in 45 seconds or less, 24/7 — whether to help customers move through a win like adding a new hire they've been courting for a month to their team, or go through something painful like a workforce reduction. These things might seem small, but together they really matter to the small businesses we serve." — MICHAEL SECKLER, CEO, Justworks
Related: Customer Loyalty Is Your Holy Grail for Success. Here's How to Cultivate It.6. Watch for customer pain points. "One of the most painful yet valuable things you can do is watch a customer use your product in real time. It can be humbling, even frustrating, to see where they struggle or get confused, but it's also one of the fastest ways to understand their true experience. The moments where a customer stumbles are the biggest opportunities to improve, and fixing those pain points is what builds long-term loyalty." — VIVEK RAGHUNATHAN, senior vice president of engineering, SnowflakeReady to break through your revenue ceiling? Join us at Level Up, a conference for ambitious business leaders to unlock new growth opportunities.
Customer loyalty is tough to earn and even harder to keep.You want your customers to feel heard and valued, but it's not always simple. We asked six business leaders from six successful companies to share the strategies they use to keep customers happy, engaged and coming back for more. No matter your industry, these insights are practical, impactful and worth borrowing.1. Take the hit in hard times.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Frances Dodds
Entrepreneur Staff
Deputy Editor of Entrepreneur
Frances Dodds is Entrepreneur magazine's deputy editor. Before that she was features director for Entrepreneur.com, and a senior editor at DuJour magazine. She's written for Longreads, New York Magazine, Architectural Digest, Us Weekly, Coveteur and more.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Growing a Business
Why Do Some People Succeed Instantly While Others Take Years? These 3 Things Explain It
We all love to hear the stories of people who started a business and became an overnight success, but the reality is very different for most.
By
Cynthia Kay
Business News
A Data Breach Reportedly Affecting 18 Million Customers Hits Jeep, Chrysler, and Dodge Parent Company
The automaker Stellantis announced on Sunday that it had uncovered "unauthorized access" to a third-party service platform in North America.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business News
A 27-Year-Old Toy Company Is Growing Faster Than Microsoft: 'Really Emotional, Memorable Experience'
And no, it's not Labubu. Here's why Build-A-Bear Workshop's stock has grown by more than 2,000% over the past five years.
By
Sherin Shibu
Social Media
How To Start a Youtube Channel: Step-by-Step Guide
YouTube can be a valuable way to grow your audience. If you're ready to create content, read more about starting a business YouTube Channel.
By
Jason R. Rich
Business News
A Major Airline Is Furloughing One-Third of Its Flight Attendants
Spirit Airlines is placing 1,800 flight attendants on furlough.
By
Erin Davis
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC