A touchscreen MacBook may finally launch next year - what we know | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Computing
Laptops
A touchscreen MacBook may finally launch next year - what we know
Apple once said no to touchscreen Macs - but rumor has it that's about to change.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 12:41 p.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysA touchscreen MacBook Pro with OLED could arrive by late 2026.A more affordable MacBook with iPhone chip won't get touchscreen.iPads should still be fine, despite sharing features with MacBooks.For years, there have been rumors of Apple working on adding a touchscreen to its MacBook lineup. In 2023, Bloomberg reported active development of the device, which was first slated to launch in 2025. It seems the project is real, and its release has been shifted to next year.According to a new X (formerly Twitter) post from analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, the Cupertino giant is finally gearing up to include a touch panel on the MacBook Pro next year. Kuo took to X and said, "This [MacBook models with a touch panel] shift appears to reflect Apple's long-term observation of iPad user behavior, indicating that in certain scenarios, touch controls can enhance both productivity and the overall user experience." Also: iPadOS 26 is turning my iPad Air into the ultraportable laptop it was meant to beThe touch-enabled MacBook Pro is slated to launch by late 2026 and use on-cell touch technology. What about the iPad?
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETApple has argued for more than a decade that touchscreens don't work well on laptops and that the iPad is a better option if someone wants a touch interface.
In an interview with The Wall Street Journal last year, Tom Boger, Apple's vice president of iPad and Mac product marketing, said that Apple doesn't see MacBook and iPad as competing devices. The iPad, he said, "has always been a touch-first device," while the MacBook is meant to be used with a trackpad/mouse and a keyboard. Also: I swapped my Windows laptop for a MacBook Air M4, and finally understand the hypeYet rival brands with Windows-based machines have democratized touchscreens on laptops. In fact, I'm currently typing this article on an Honor MagicBook Art 14 (2025), which packs an OLED touch panel in a 1kg form factor. I must admit, I don't use the touch functionality often -- maybe a few touches or swipes here and there, but no active usage.Blurring the linesI believe a touchscreen is more functional on the iPad than a laptop for two reasons. Also: 4 Apple products you should avoid buying this week (including these iPhone 17 models)First, it supports a touch-enabled OS, and second, it runs mobile apps. Most desktop software isn't designed to be touch-first, which is why the Microsoft Surface Pro never gained widespread adoption. I loved the form factor to take notes in college, but the utility in touch mode was limited to artistic use cases with the Surface Pen. And Windows is yet to evolve for an intuitive touch experience.
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETI think a similar situation will arise on a touch-sensitive MacBook Pro, unless Apple offers seamless transition between desktop software and its mobile-equivalent apps. It is, anyway, blurring the lines between the MacBook and the iPad with the new iPadOS 26. I've used the latest version, and the new multitasking features offer unparalleled improvement in productivity. However, I don't see it being a direct competitor to the MacBook Air or Pro because it can't run desktop software. I still feel limited when I have to file a story in the content management system (CMS), but mobile Safari and Chrome throw errors.
Also: The 5 best iPads of 2025If both the iPad and MacBook are touch-enabled in 2026, the operating system would be the biggest differentiator between the two computing devices. With iPads, you'd get a mobile OS made for touch-first input with Face ID and 5G. On the other hand, a touchscreen MacBook Pro would offer more ports, better performance, and desktop software made for keyboard and trackpad/mouse input. Apple is also rumored to launch a more affordable MacBook model powered by an iPhone processor with 5G. However, according to Kuo, it won't get a touch panel.
Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why Apple's new iPhone Air looks so much like an Android (it's not all in your head)
The MacBook Air is on sale for $799 - Here's why I recommend it for most people
If Apple unveils the iPhone 17 Air with these features today, I'm ready to upgrade
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use