Best Monitors for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechComputingComputer Accessories Monitors
The Best Monitors to Buy in 2025
Alienware, HP, Apple and more hit our list of the best monitors CNET has tested, from gaming to portable to general purpose.
Our Experts
Written by
Lori Grunin
Article updated on April 23, 2025 at 10:11 AM PDT
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats. Expertise Photography | PCs and laptops | Gaming and gaming accessories
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Factors to consider
Size
You're most likely best off with a 27- or 32-inch flat screen with a 16:9 aspect ratio or a 34-inch curved with a 21:9 aspect ratio.
Resolution
Recommended resolution depends upon the screen size, but you're always better off with the maximum you can afford. I'd say a minimum of 1440p for 27-inch, 4K for 32-inch or larger and at least 1440p for 21:9.
Screen type
OLED or QD-OLED generally have the best contrast, color and pixel refresh speeds, although they may have some artifacts on text. IPS is the best alternative.
Color
The bigger the color gamut the screen covers the better. At a minimum, you want 100% sRGB, but 90% or higher P3 (also known as DCI-P3) is best, as it delivers more colors. Look for specific gamut coverage percentages rather than terms like "1 billion colors," which are essentially meaningless.
Brightness and HDR
In order to produce a decent image that looks like you expect HDR to look, you want the monitor to hit a peak brightness of 600 nits in HDR mode -- you might be able to get away with lower for OLED, but I still would recommend less than 500 nits -- and it's fine if the peak is lower in the standard range, though you still don't really want it lower than 300 for a desktop monitor.
Ports and connectors
They should match whatever you've got on your graphics card or laptop ports, and if you plan to connect via USB-C make sure the monitor's ports support video for it.
Price
Unless you can't afford it, at least $300 (full price, not discounted) for a current-generation model, closer to $600 minimum for OLED and/or decent HDR.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Monitor preferences can vary, regardless of how objective your testing is. For instance, I prioritize color accuracy and connection locations over sleek curves; you may feel the opposite. And while expensive monitors aren't necessarily better than cheaper ones, you usually have to spend more or make compromises, especially for specialized displays used for color work or gaming. Throw in the long sales life of monitors -- you'll find years-old monitors for sale, sometimes for great prices but sometimes not -- and even I scratch my head sometimes about whether a new model is worth it, how to winnow down the selection, and even how to figure out which model I'm looking at on retail sites. I hope this helps. Our Picks
Best monitor overall LG Ultragear 32GS95UE
Jump to details
$1,097 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best portable monitor Arzopa Z1RC
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
A last-gen favorite for gaming Alienware 34 QD-OLED (AW3423DW)
Jump to details
$650 at Dell, Inc.
Jump to details
Best monitor for the all-Mac creator Apple Studio Display
Jump to details
$1,500 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget big-screen monitor
Innocn 40C1R
Jump to details
$550 at Innocn
Jump to details
Table of Contents
The Best Monitors to Buy in 2025
Which is the best monitor overall?
Specifications for recommended monitors
Other notable monitors we tested
Factors to consider
How we test monitors
Monitor FAQs
What screen size do I need?
Should I get two screens or one ultrawide?
Should I get a curved or flat monitor?
What's the best refresh rate for a monitor?
Does color accuracy matter?
Which is the best monitor overall?I've been testing imaging and graphics products for decades, and when it comes to monitors my favorite overall at the moment are OLEDs and QD-OLEDs, because they're so flexible. My top pick is the LG Ultragear 32GS95UE, a 32-inch, 4K OLED with many of the capabilities I expect for both gaming and creating. There's dual refresh rate support (240Hz at 4K and 480Hz in 1080p), granular control over the settings, a lot of color tools for creators and excellent built-in speakers for your general-purpose needs. It's pretty expensive but not outrageous for a high-end monitor. A bigger screen but for a lot less is Innocn's 40-inch 40C1R at $450. It's not great but it's good enough all around -- especially if you can find it when the price dips. If you need advice on whether a particular type of monitor is right for you, there are some answers to common questions at the bottom of the list and a lot more guidance available in our general monitor and gaming monitor buying guides. You can also find some related buying advice for finding the best laptop (for Windows users or MacBook seekers), best gaming laptop or using an iPad as an external displayRead more: Best Gaming MonitorsBest Portable Monitors
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best monitor overall
LG Ultragear 32GS95UE
Pros
Excellent display quality for gaming, including 4K/240Hz and 1080p/480Hz modes
Great speakers
Free LG Calibration Studio software (to create/update built-in profiles)
A ton of settings
Cons
Controller utility doesn't have many of the settings that are in the OSD
No DisplayPort 2.1, which you'd expect for the money
So many settings it's hard to keep track of them
Some artifacts on small text
No USB-C
It's expensive, but the 4K QD-OLED Ultragear 32GS95UE has a great balance of features, design and performance. It's got excellent display quality -- all the benefits of OLED, including true blacks for high contrast, full P3 gamut coverage, good color accuracy and fast pixel refresh. LG throws in a ton of panel features, such as 240Hz/480Hz dual-refresh rate support (although 480Hz is only in 1080p), built-in color profiles that are updateable via LG's software and an optional color calibrator, almost over-granular control over display settings and more.In addition, the monitor has terrific integrated under-screen speakers that are significantly better than those you typically find in any monitor. They're loud enough to be usable (and definitely louder than the usual pair of dinky 2W drivers), and are definitely up to ambient audio gameplay, music and movies; the drawback to the design is that, off-angle, the sound gets a bit muffled.It's my top pick at the moment, but that's because it offers a good balance, not because it's flawless. It has quite a few flaws -- for a monitor in its price class -- including no DisplayPort 2.1 support, no USB-C (for either video input or power delivery) and artifacts on small text that may be a deal-killer for some people. The stand is pretty standard, and while sturdy, it feels a bit plasticky.My test measurements showed decent but not stellar accuracy out of the box -- not sufficient for color-critical work, at least. Standard white points are generally around 6300K, gamma 2.2-2.3 and brightness is about 265 by default but can hit as high as 400 nits in SDR. Accuracy averages under 3 Delta e 2000, but you can probably improve it with a calibration tune-up. HDR peak brightness hovers around 650 nits for a 10% window -- that's with peak brightness set to low but which has the best tone-mapping curve -- but you can push it to over 1,200 nits in a 1% window if you crank everything. You really don't want to.The display is nominally priced at $1,400, and I don't know that I'd pay that much for it. It's relatively new and still has dropped to as low as $1,000 with discounts, so if you can find it for that or less it's a good deal.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,097 at Amazon
$1,400 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Size (diagonal)
31.5 inchesNative resolution
4K UHDPanel type
WOLEDMaximum native refresh rate
480Hz (1080p), 240Hz (4K)HDR support
DisplayHDR True Black 400Speakers
YesFlat or curved?
Flat
Add to compare
Mark Knapp/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Mark Knapp/CNET
Best portable monitor
Arzopa Z1RC
Pros
Solid performance and features for the price and class
Versatile built-in stand
Cons
Dimmer than the specs indicate, though not bad
Don't bother with HDR: it's too dim for a real HDR display
From its 16-inch size to its versatile kickstand to its slim, lightweight build, the Z1RC is impressive for its price. The 2,560x1,600 resolution helps make everything sharp at this size, and it's exceptionally colorful, covering as much as 94% of the DCI-P3 color space and completely covering the sRGB color space in our testing. It’s not the brightest display, but at over 360 nits as measured, it's impressive for a portable monitor, and combined with an anti-glare finish, it's easy to see in most conditions.The Z1RC is pretty flexible with how you set it up, too. It has two USB-C ports and can run off a single-cable connection with a compatible device. Its second port is handy if you need auxiliary power or when you need broader compatibility with its mini HDMI input. A built-in kickstand also makes it easy to prop the monitor up horizontally and vertically. Of the portable monitors I’ve tested recently, the Arzopa Z1RC leads the way in many respects, and the fact that it’s also one of the most affordable options cements its place as a leading option.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
16-inchResolution
2,560x1,600Connections
Mini HDMI, 2 x USB-C
Add to compare
Alienware/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Alienware/CNET
A last-gen favorite for gaming
Alienware 34 QD-OLED (AW3423DW)
Pros
Great gaming performance and quality
Excellent color and tonal accuracy, notably in the dark shadow areas
Nice set of controls
Three-year warranty against burn-in
Cons
Radiates some heat through the screen
Annoying connector arrangement and cable management
The combination of OLED with Samsung's Quantum Dot color technology made this Alienware 34-inch a standout when it launched a few years ago. It still delivers great gaming performance and quality, terrific color and tonal accuracy (notably in the dark shadow areas, where OLED is weak), solid HDR support, a USB hub, a decent set of controls and an above-average three-year warranty against burn-in, making it hard to beat at its lower price. It's not perfect: It doesn't have speakers, though the ones built into monitors tend to be pretty lame, and I'm not thrilled with the design of the connector layout and cable management, to mention a couple nitpicks. But it's certainly a top all-around choice.In September 2023, Alienware announced a slightly less expensive followup model, the AW3423DWF, which was essentially the same panel, but it supports FreeSync Pro and VESA Adaptive-Sync
instead of G-Sync, has two DP connectors and one HDMI (versus the opposite on the older model) and 120Hz VRR when hooked up to a console. There might be some other tweaks since it loses the extra overhead of the G-Sync silicon (for instance, it supposedly can mount closer to a wall with a VESA mount).Read our Alienware 34 QD-OLED (AW3423DW) review.  ... Show more
Get it now
$650 at Dell, Inc.
$650 at Amazon
$900 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Size (diagonal)
34.2 inchesNative resolution
3,440 x 1,440Panel type
QD-OLEDMaximum native refresh rate
175Hz (DisplayPort), 100Hz (HDMI)HDR support
DisplayHDR 400 True Black Speakers
NoFlat or curved?
Curved
Add to compare
Dan Ackerman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Dan Ackerman/CNET
Best monitor for the all-Mac creator
Apple Studio Display
Pros
Excellent color accuracy and Apple-standard color profiles
Good speaker system for a monitor
Cons
No physical controls -- all settings only via MacOS
No HDR
Meh Windows compatibility if that matters to you
Height adjustable stand is extra cost and no choices allow swiveling or rotation
Only a single input connection
No easy-access ports
Pricey but pretty -- with excellent color accuracy and reference profiles plus a good, six-speaker audio system -- the Apple Studio Display gives Mac ecosystem fans exactly what one expects from Apple. That includes some of the downsides as well, such as a lack of physical controls, no HDR support, extra cost to geta stand that lets you adjust the height (with no swivel or rotation), a single input connection and all three USB-C ports on the back rather than somewhere more easily accessible.Read our Apple Studio Display review.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,500 at Amazon
$1,300 at Best Buy
$1,399 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Size (diagonal)
27 inchesNative resolution
5K2KPanel type
IPS with white LEDHDR support
NoSpeakers
YesFlat or curved?
Flat
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/3
Best budget big-screen monitor
Innocn 40C1R
Pros
Nice and roomy
Generally solid performance for the money
Includes VESA mounting hardware
Cons
Don't buy for HDR--like most DHDR 400 monitors it's not worth it
Action-gaming can have motion blur
Somewhat low resolution for its size
Little to no documentation plus a lot of mysterious settings is confusing
The 40-inch flatscreen Innocn trades some excellence for value, making it a solid general-purpose monitor if you need a big 'un for less and are OK with above average, but not best-in-class, gaming or color-critical accuracy. Plus, it ships with VESA mounting hardware in the box, which is convenient if you want to mount it on a wall or an arm, and unlike a lot of "value" competitors, it has a USB-C connection with 90-watt power delivery.Like many big-for-less displays, the Innocn has somewhat low resolution for its size -- 3,440x1,440 pixels -- but if you normally scale your view, then it should suit. Gaming is solid, but if you play games with really fast moving action, the motion artifacts may bother you. It does handle 144Hz (DP) and 100Hz (HDMI) refresh rates, though. And it has a lot of features that are either minimally effective or undocumented.Read our Innocn 40C1R review.  ... Show more
Get it now
$550 at Innocn
Specs & Configurations
Size (diagonal)
40 inchesNative resolution
3,440 x 1,440Panel type
IPS-ADSHDR support
DisplayHDR 400Speakers
NoFlat or curved?
FlatMaximum native refresh rate
144Hz (DisplayPort), 100Hz (HDMI)
Add to compareSpecifications for recommended monitors
Alienware 34 QD-OLED (AW3423DW)Apple Studio DisplayArzopa Z1RCInnocn 40C1RLG Ultragear 32GS95UEPrice $900Starts at $1,599. Nano-texture glass, $299; Tilt-and height-adjustable stand, $399$200$609$1,100Size (diagonal) 34.2 in. (87cm)27 in/69cm16 in/41cm40 in/102cm31.5 in/80cmPanel and backlight QD-OLEDIPS with white LEDIPSIPS-ADS with LED backlightWOLEDFlat or curved CurvedFlatFlatFlatFlatResolution and pixel density 3,440 x 1,440, 110ppi5,120x2,880 pixels, 218 ppi2,560x1,600, 189ppi3,440 x 1,440, 92.3ppi3,840 x 2,160, 140ppiAspect ratio 21:916:916:1021:916:9Maximum rated gamut 99% P3100% P3100% sRGB95% DCI-P399% P3Rated Brightness (nits, peak/typical) 1,000 (HDR)/250 (SDR)600n/a500/na1,300 (HDR, 1% window)/275 (SDR)HDR DisplayHDR 400 True BlackNoNoDisplayHDR 400DisplayHDR True Black 400Adaptive sync G-Sync UltimateNoneNoFreeSync PremiumFreeSync Premium Pro, G-Sync Compatible, VESA Adaptive-SyncMax vertical refresh rate 175Hz (DisplayPort), 100Hz (HDMI)60Hz60Hz144Hz (DisplayPort), 100Hz (HDMI)480Hz (1080p), 240Hz (4K)Gray/gray response time (milliseconds) 0.1n/an/a20.03Connections 2 x HDMI 2.0, 1 x DP 1.4, 4 x USB-A 5Gbps4x USB-C (1 x Thunderbolt 3)2 x USB-C, 1 x Mini HDMI2 x HDMI 2.0, 1 x DP 1.4, 1 x USB-C in (90w PD)2 x HDMI 2.1, 1 x DisplayPort 1.4, 2 x USB-A (plus USB 3.0 upstream)Audio Headphone jack, line outSix speakers2 x 1w speakersAudio out3.5mm, 2x10w stereo speakersVESA mountable Yes, 100 x 100 mmYes, 100 x 100 mm (VESA mount adapter, no extra cost but no stand)NoYes, 100 x 100 mmYes, 100 x 100 mmPanel warranty 3 years; 1 bright pixel and burn-in protection90 days1 year30-day return; 1 year2 years parts and laborRelease date March 2022March 20222024December 2021December 2023
Other notable monitors we tested
Sony InZone M9 II ($798) This PlayStation-optimized monitor -- though it's not from Sony's PlayStation division -- is a great HDR experience (DisplayHDR 600 with local dimming) and works as advertised with the PS5. With the update, Sony fixed one of my biggest pet peeves, the horrible stand.Alienware AW3225QF ($1,000): OLED screens tend to be glossy, which a lot of people like; colors pop more and they tend to look a little slicker. If you're in front of the screen for hours or there's particularly reflective stuff behind you (like a window, for example) your eyes and brain will thank you for a less reflective screen. The Alienware AW3225QF's fits the bill. HP Omen 27QS ($220): This is a solid 1440p budget model -- pretty low-end for gaming but OK for general use -- but it's only worth the money if you can find it on sale.
Factors to consider
The trick to finding the right general-purpose monitor is getting sufficient display area, contrast, color and features (most importantly, connections) at an affordable price without sacrificing too much elsewhere. Here's my advice on what to consider to get the most for your money.SizeAll else being equal, if you've got the space and budget, bigger is almost always better. Screen size labeling is based on the diagonal measurement: That made it easy to compare monitor sizes when almost every screen had the same aspect ratio -- essentially the proportions of the screen rectangle, which is the ratio of horizontal to vertical pixels. Wide and ultrawide screens on desktops and newer ratios on laptops (such as 3:2 or 16:10) make cross-size comparisons a little more difficult. You may need to factor in the aspect ratios your favorite games support. If they only offer 16:9 options, configuring them for a widescreen 21:9, 24:10 or 32:9 monitor can be annoying and frustrating; you may also be able to save some money.If you remember your geometry and algebra, you can calculate the width and height of the display if you also know the aspect ratio. (Because width/height = aspect ratio and width² + height² = diagonal²) The further from 1:1 the aspect ratio is, the wider the screen and more of it will be out to the sides -- and therefore in your peripheral vision if you're sitting close. It will also let you figure out the physical dimensions of the screen, most notably the width, to ensure it will fit in the allotted space. DPI Calculator can do the math for you, but keep in mind that the numbers only represent the panel size, not the size of the display, which includes bezels and the mount. Nor does it take into account curved displays, which tend to have smaller horizontal dimensions than their flat-screen equivalent. ResolutionResolution, the number of vertical by horizontal pixels that comprise the image, is inextricable from screen size when you're choosing a monitor. What you really want to optimize is pixel density, the number of pixels per inch the screen can display, because that's what primarily determines how sharp the screen looks as well as how big elements of the interface, such as icons and text, can appear. If you're gaming with a controller at distances further than you'd be sitting at a desk, it can be critical. For instance, I've discovered that I can't read the text well enough to even make it through a tutorial in 1440p on a 32-inch monitor from more than about 4 feet away.Standard resolutions with a 16:9 aspect ratio include 4K UHD (3,840x2,160 pixels), QHD (Quad HD, 2,560x1,440 pixels) and FHD (Full HD, 1,920x1,080 pixels): You're better off looking at the numbers than the alphabet soup because when you get to variations like UWQHD they can get mind-bogglingly ambiguous. When you see references to "1080p" or "1440p," it's shorthand for the vertical resolution. Examples of widescreen resolutions, which you'll tend to see in 34-inch and larger curved displays, include 3,440x1,440 pixels (21:9) and 5,120x1,440 pixels (32:9).On a 27-inch display, 1,920x1,080 has a pixel density of 81.59 ppi. On a 24-inch display, 1080p works out to 91.79 ppi. Because a higher density is better (up to a point), FHD will look better on the smaller screen. This also depends on your vision: For me, too low a resolution and I can see the pixel grid and at slightly better than that I see nothing but jaggies on small serif type. So "optimal" really depends on what you're looking at and personal preference. My preference for working, highly detailed sims, games with a lot of text and so on is at least 100ppi; if you're moving so fast there's no time to stop and shoot the flowers, you can probably drop to as low as 90ppi. Once again, the DPI Calculator can do the math for you. (A related spec is dot pitch, the size of the space between the center of the pixels, which is just the inverse of pixel density. For that, smaller is better.)Because of the way Windows works (and MacOS, too), you're always better off with the highest resolution possible: You can always change the settings to make things that are too small on a high-res screen larger and change settings to increase frame rates, but you can't make things that are too large on a low-res screen bigger.Screen typeOLED or QD-OLED generally have the best contrast, color and pixel refresh speeds, although they may have some artifacts on text because OLED's one-pixel-one-color structure doesn't antialias (essentially blur the edges of the characters) as well as the filter array technologies (three-primaries-one-pixel-one backlight) used by other panel types. IPS screens with LED backlights are cheaper but still good -- IPS is the best alternative. If they use Samsung's Quantum Dot technology they have better color, and IPS Black panels have better contrast than straight IPS because of its deeper blacks.ColorThe bigger the color gamut the screen covers the better. At a minimum, you want 100% sRGB, but 90% or higher P3 (also known as DCI-P3) is best, as it delivers more colors. Look for specific gamut coverage percentages rather than terms like "1 billion colors," which are essentially meaningless because gamut coverage indicates which of the "billion" are included. If many of them fall outside the color space you need, they're pretty useless.If your work or sideline requires accurate colors -- photo editing, video editing, 3D rendering and the like do if you need or want colors to display the way you shot or designed them -- keep in mind that there are various degrees of accuracy, and color management can be an extremely difficult exercise (in other words, if the colors look "wrong," don't automatically blame your monitor). The most popular measure of visible variance from the "correct" color is Delta E, and the most commonly touted spec is a Delta E of less than 2. That's great for generally accurate color, but that's also an average over a series of color patches. If you need what I call "color-critical accuracy," you really need a maximum Delta E of 2, as well as consistent gray scale. If you plan to output your work for printing, you may also need the monitor to cover more of the Adobe RGB gamut than today's typical sRGB or P3 -- sRGB is tiny and old, and P3 doesn't cover the cyan, yellow and magenta primaries you want for print.Brightness and HDRHigh dynamic range refers to scenes rendered with brighter highlights, greater shadow detail and a wider range of color, for a better-looking image. In order to produce a decent image that looks like you expect HDR to look, you want the monitor to hit a peak brightness of 600 nits (aka cd/m^2) in HDR mode -- you might be able to get away with lower for OLED, but I still would recommend less than 500 nits -- and it's fine if the peak is lower in the standard range, though you still don't really want it lower than 300 for a desktop monitor.For gaming HDR, in contrast to TV HDR, it means more than just a prettier picture: The better you can see what's lurking in the bright and dark areas, the more likely you are to avoid danger and spot clues and looks a lot better than the black-level boost settings a monitor may have. And in photo or video editing, even if you don't plan to export as HDR, the greater brightness range provides some useful latitude when you're color grading or adjusting exposure more precisely. Ports and connectorsIf you plan to connect to your computer via USB-C, make sure the monitor explicitly lists that it supports video out (also known as alt mode or video over USB-C). Just because it has a USB-C port doesn't necessarily mean it can get video input that way. And if you want a real USB hub, you should make sure it includes the types of USB ports you need; for instance, a lot of high-end monitors (surprisingly) have an old USB-B 3.0 connector feeding the monitor's USB-A connections, which can be a pain or limiting.PriceUnless you can't afford it, assume you'll pay at least $300 (full price, not discounted) for a current-generation model, closer to $600 minimum for OLED and/or decent HDR. How we test monitors
All measurements were performed using Portrait Display's Calman Ultimate 2021 R4 and later software using a Calibrite ColorChecker Display Plus (formerly X-Rite i1Display Pro Plus) and a Murideo Six-G pattern generator for HDR testing where necessary, or the Client3 HDR patterns within Calman, where possible. How extensive our testing is depends on the capabilities of the monitor, the screen and backlight technology used, and the judgment of the reviewer.On the most basic models we may stick with just brightness, contrast and color gamut, while on more capable displays we may run tests of most user-selectable modes for gaming or color-critical usage, uniformity and so on. For the color work, we may also run tests to verify how white point accuracy varies with brightness.Color accuracy results reported in units of Delta E 2000 are based on Calman's standard Pantone patch set, plus the grayscale and skin tone patches. White points results are based on both the actual white value plus the correlated color temperature for the entire gray scale (21 patches, 0 to 100%) rounded down to the nearest 50K as long as there are no big variations. We also use Blur Busters' motion tests to judge motion artifacts (such as ghosting) or refresh rate-related problems that can affect gaming.See more details about how we test monitors. Monitor FAQs
What screen size do I need?
Everything being equal, and if you've got the space and budget, bigger is almost always better. Screen size labeling is based on the length of the diagonal: That made it easy to compare when almost every screen had the same aspect ratio (the ratio of the number of horizontal pixels to vertical pixels). But wide and ultrawide screens on desktop and newer ratios on laptops (such as 3:2 or 16:10) make it a little more difficult.If you remember your geometry and algebra, you can calculate the width and height of the display if you also know the aspect ratio (because width/height = aspect ratio and width² + height² = diagonal²). The further from 1:1 the aspect ratio is, the wider the screen and the more the sides will be out of your center of vision if you're up close. The calculation will also let you figure out the physical dimensions of the screen, most notably the width, to ensure it will fit in the allotted space. DPI Calculator can do the math for you.
Show more
Should I get two screens or one ultrawide?
This depends on what you're doing. For instance, if you want a fast gaming monitor for play and a high-resolution display for work, it's a lot cheaper to get two than a single one that does both. Or if you need a color-accurate monitor for design but want a high-brightness one for gaming, it's also a lot cheaper to get two smaller ones -- I have two 27-inch models for that reason. But if you just need a ton of screen space, a single ultrawide might be simpler.
Show more
Should I get a curved or flat monitor?
To me, curved monitors are the best way to make a single display wider without forcing you to sit too far back; that's why they make more sense for a desktop monitor than for a TV. Optimally, you should be able to see the entire screen without moving your head too much. Once you get beyond roughly 27 inches, that requires a curve if you're sitting at a desk. Don't get me started on the "immersive experiences," of curved screens: Unless that display wraps all the way around me, it's no more immersive than any other. And frankly, I find ultrawide screens less immersive, because, for example, important stuff (like interface elements in a lot of games) is out on the periphery. I also prefer two smaller screens (where "smaller" means 27- or 32 inches) because I like to have one color reference monitor and one fast gaming monitor.At 27 inches and below, aside from the fact that curved displays can look ever so much prettier, one of the few practical applications for it is three-monitor setups, which let you create a more surround-like widescreen experience. Otherwise, small curved screens just aren't worth it, especially if you're paying extra for the privilege. And in fact, I feel like curves on smaller screens bring the edges too far into my peripheral vision for comfort.
Show more
What's the best refresh rate for a monitor?
Refresh rate is the number of times per second (in Hertz, or Hz) the screen can update, and affects motion blur and artifacts like tearing or stuttering, which occur when the rate at which the graphics card is feeding the display and the display's refresh rate differ significantly. For any task in which frame rate (frames per second) matters, refresh rate may be an issue. (That predominantly means gaming, though high-frame-rate video editing or viewing may also be affected.) 60Hz is the minimum you want for comfort -- most monitors support that -- and 75Hz is comfortable for most nongaming uses. But IPS and OLED panels can now hit 240Hz or more, which means there's a lot less of a tradeoff using them for gaming than there used to be. You can find everything you've ever wanted to know about refresh rate and more at Blur Busters. To use with an Xbox Series X or PlayStation 5 console, you'll want a monitor with an HDMI 2.1 port that explicitly states it supports 4K at 120Hz with variable refresh (also called VRR) support.
Show more
Does color accuracy matter?
Ballpark accuracy matters. If you shop online, for example, you want to make sure that cerulean blue shirt is roughly the same color you expect to get. And as long as a monitor has a less-saturated setting than vivid and any level of quality control, you don't need to worry about it. What tends to happen in practice, though, is that a monitor is tuned to produce the most accurate colors it was capable of when it left the factory floor. For this type of everyday accuracy, the amount of a given color space it covers matters more; for instance, sRGB doesn't render a lot of greens as well as Adobe RGB, P3 or other larger spaces, which can give you "that's not the green I ordered" moments.But that's not the type of accuracy manufacturers are talking about when they list specs like "Delta E < 2" or say it's Pantone Validated. What those mean -- or should mean -- is the monitor has been tuned and calibrated so that the difference between a set of color patches as displayed on the screen is the same within a small margin of error to a set of reference patches within the bounds of a specific color space. If that's the type of color accuracy that matters to you, it adds a whole additional layer of requirements and complexity. Just remember: Accuracy is only as meaningful as the least-accurate result, but the Delta E < 2 reported is usually an average.
Show more
Need more guidance? We've got more detailed info on what to look for in a general-purpose monitor and more specifically what's important in a gaming monitor.
About the Author
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice
I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats.
Read full bio
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.