U.S. military again targeted a boat allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
U.S. military again targeted a boat allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela President Trump said the U.S. military on Monday again targeted a boat allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela, killing three aboard the vessel.
The Americas
Trump says the U.S. military targeted a boat allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela
September 16, 20251:31 AM ET
By
The Associated Press
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro points at a map of the Americas during a press conference in Caracas, Venezuela, on Monday.
Jesus Vargas/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Jesus Vargas/AP
WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said the U.S. military on Monday again targeted a boat allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela, killing three aboard the vessel, and hinted that the military targeting of cartels could be further expanded.
The Americas
Trump confirms U.S. strike on alleged Venezuelan drug boat
"The Strike occurred while these confirmed narcoterrorists from Venezuela were in International Waters transporting illegal narcotics (A DEADLY WEAPON POISONING AMERICANS!) headed to the U.S.," Trump said in a Truth Social post announcing the strike. "These extremely violent drug trafficking cartels POSE A THREAT to U.S. National Security, Foreign Policy, and vital U.S. Interests." The strike was carried out nearly two weeks after another military strike on what the Trump administration said was a drug-carrying speedboat from Venezuela that killed 11.
Sponsor Message
Speaking to reporters in the Oval Office later on Monday, Trump said he had been shown footage of the latest strike by Gen. Dan Caine, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Asked what proof the U.S. has that the vessel was carrying drugs, Trump replied, "We have proof. All you have to do is look at the cargo that was spattered all over the ocean — big bags of cocaine and and fentanyl all over the place." Trump also suggested that U.S. military strikes targeting alleged drug smugglers at sea could be expanded to land. He said the U.S. military is seeing fewer vessels in the Caribbean since carrying out the first strike early this month. But he said the cartels are still smuggling drugs by land.
State of the World from NPR
Trump Administration's War with International Drug Cartels
"We're telling the cartels right now we're going to be stopping them, too," Trump said. "When they come by land we're going to be stopping them the same way we stopped the boats. ... But maybe by talking about it a little bit, it won't happen. If it doesn't happen that's good." Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth later took to X to warn cartels the U.S. would "track them, kill them, and dismantle their networks throughout our hemisphere — at the times and places of our choosing," echoing muscular language used by past administrations during the Global War on Terror. The White House also posted a short unclassified video clip on social media of the strike.
Sponsor Message
Questions about legality The Trump administration has justified the military action as a necessary escalation to stem the flow of drugs into the United States. But several senators, Democrats and some Republicans, have questioned the legality of Trump's action. They view it as a potential overreach of executive authority in part because the military was used for law enforcement purposes. Democratic Sen. Adam Schiff of California said he's drafting a war powers resolution aimed at preventing U.S. troops from engaging in further strikes until formally authorized by Congress. Schiff said he was concerned "these lawless killings are just putting us at risk" and could prompt another country to target U.S. forces without proper justification.
National Security
Trump wants to label drug cartels terrorist organizations. Here's what that means in practice
"I don't want to see us get into some war with Venezuela because the president is just blowing ships willy-nilly out of the water," Schiff said. Human rights groups have also raised concerns that the strikes flout international law. The White House has offered scant information about how the operations came together or the legal authorities under which they were carried out. "Let us be clear — this may be an extrajudicial execution, which is murder," said Daphne Eviatar, who directs Amnesty International USA's Security with Human Rights Program. "There is absolutely no legal justification for this military strike." The Trump administration has claimed self-defense as a legal justification for the first strike, with Secretary of State Marco Rubio arguing the drug cartels "pose an immediate threat" to the nation. U.S. officials said the strike early this month targeted Tren de Aragua, a Venezuelan gang designated by the U.S. as a terrorist organization. And they indicated more military strikes on drug targets would be coming as the U.S. looks to "wage war" on cartels. Trump did not specify whether Tren de Aragua was also the target of Monday's strike.
Sponsor Message
The Venezuelan government did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the reported strike. The Trump administration has railed specifically against Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro for the scourge of illegal drugs in U.S. communities. Venezuela's president lashes out Maduro during a press conference earlier on Monday lashed out at the U.S. government, accusing the Trump administration of using drug trafficking accusations as an excuse for a military operation whose intentions are "to intimidate and seek regime change" in the South American country. Maduro also repudiated what he described as a weekend operation in which 18 Marines raided a Venezuelan fishing boat in the Caribbean.
The Americas
Venezuela's Maduro begins new term as US raises arrest bounty
"What were they looking for? Tuna? What were they looking for? A kilo of snapper? Who gave the order in Washington for a missile destroyer to send 18 armed Marines to raid a tuna fishing vessel?" he said. "They were looking for a military incident. If the tuna fishing boys had any kind of weapons and used weapons while in Venezuelan jurisdiction, it would have been the military incident that the warmongers, extremists who want a war in the Caribbean, are seeking." Speaking to Fox News earlier Monday, Rubio reiterated that the U.S. doesn't see Maduro as the rightful leader of Venezuela but as head of a drug cartel. Rubio has consistently depicted Venezuela as a vestige of communist ideology in the Western Hemisphere. "We're not going to have a cartel, operating or masquerading as a government, operating in our own hemisphere," Rubio said. Following the first military strike on a boat allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela, America's chief diplomat said Trump was "going to use the U.S. military and all the elements of American power to target cartels who are targeting America." The AP and others have reported that the boat had turned around and was heading back to shore when it was struck. But Rubio on Monday said he didn't know if that's accurate.
Sponsor Message
"What needs to start happening is some of these boats need to get blown up," Rubio said. "We can't live in a world where all of a sudden they do a U-turn and so we can't touch them anymore."
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor