My mother's lawyer stole $400K after she moved to a nursing home. How do we get our money back? | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
My mother's lawyer stole $400K after she moved to a nursing home. How do we get our money back?
My mother's lawyer stole $400K after she moved to a nursing home. How do we get our money back?
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 21, 2025, 1:00:00 PM
By Quentin Fottrell
'Within a month, her home had fraudulently been put up for sale and her vehicle stolen'
"My sister and I are both in our late 60s now and want the inheritance money we should have received so many years ago." (Photo subject is a model.)
Dear Quentin,
In 2013, my mother was removed from her California home and taken to a hospital and nursing home after a wellness check was called in by a concerned neighbor. Within a month, her home had fraudulently been put up for sale and her vehicle stolen.
She hired a lawyer, a friend of her late husband, to investigate, and within days of signing an agreement with him, she passed away. The lawyer specialized in injury-recovery cases. I live in Pennsylvania and my sister lives in Washington state.
This lawyer took many years to move forward, overlooked by the California probate court. He had convinced us not to require a bond since he was a "family friend." Instead of passing her inheritance on to my sister and me, he stole $400,000.
Don't miss: 'I am a senior citizen': My car needs $3,500 for repairs, but only has a trade-in value of $6,000. Do I bother fixing it?
Lawyer was disbarred
After I notified the California bar, he was disbarred in 2022. I hired an estate lawyer in California and eventually replaced the bad lawyer as administrator for the estate, but there is no money left in the account. The lawyer had written himself huge checks.
The case was picked up by the FBI, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and U.S. Postal Service investigators. I provided the paper trail. Three years later, there is still no outcome and the investigation against this lawyer seems to have stalled.
I've paid a new lawyer over $8,000 and have to pay a minimum bond every year. My sister and I are both in our late 60s now and want the inheritance money we should have received so many years ago.
What can we do?
Desperate
Related: My elderly cousin's nursing home coerced her into changing her will - and selling her house. She was worth millions.
You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com. The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.
California also has a statute of limitations of three years for fraud, although there are many exceptions to this rule.
Dear Desperate,
You need to hire a lawyer who makes this case a priority.
A criminal trial will be a lengthy and time-consuming process. The lawyer in question was disbarred, and now he is waiting it out. He knows the money is gone and the house is sold and that it's hard to retrieve stolen funds.
I asked Tiffany Halimi, principal and department chair at Offit Kurman, a law firm with offices in several states, including California, about your case. "The estate needs to sue the 'bad lawyer' for recovery of the assets," she says.
"Assuming the estate wins the case against the bad lawyer, then the estate will have a judgement which can be satisfied with the bad attorney's assets," she adds. "Hopefully there are assets against which to recover."
Client security funds
Many state bar associations have client security funds or similar services that exist to reimburse clients like you who have had funds embezzled or otherwise stolen by dishonest attorneys. However, these funds have limits that vary by state.
In California, this fund can reimburse clients up to $100,000, depending on when the loss occurred. "It does not reimburse a loss if the lawyer acted incompetently or failed to take a certain action," the State Bar of California says.
"Typical losses include theft of personal injury settlement funds or other funds entrusted to the lawyer, failure to refund fees when the lawyer performed no services [and] borrowing money from a client without the intention or the ability to repay it," it adds.
Statute of limitations
A potential roadblock: California also has a statute of limitations of three years for fraud, although there are many exceptions to this rule, including filing a lawsuit to preserve your claim, or if the defendant concealed facts or fled the state.
According to the Law Offices of John D. Kirby in San Diego: "The discovery rule states that a statute of limitations does not begin when the actual crime occurred, but instead begins when the victim of the crime becomes aware that it actually happened."
It adds: "This rule is very important because victims of fraud do not always realize that they are victims until the fraud has been going on for quite some time. If there were no discovery rule, many victims could never file charges for this type of crime."
Elder financial abuse
Your mother was a victim of elder financial abuse. The National Center on Elder Abuse, a government agency affiliated with the Administration on Aging, says that one in 10 people over the age of 60 in the U.S. experienced some form of abuse in the prior year.
There are red flags to watch out for. Financial signs of elder abuse include fraudulent signatures on documents, overdue bills and "unusual or sudden changes in spending patterns, will or other financial documents," according to the nonprofit National Council on Aging.
The earlier victims or their family members can act, the better. You can report identity theft and get a recovery plan at IdentityTheft.gov. You can also call 1-877-IDTHEFT (1-877-438-4338) or via telecommunications device for the deaf at 1-866-653-4261.
Profile of predators
It may seem unthinkable, but neighbors, friends, family members, caretakers and even lawyers can be perpetrators of elder financial abuse. Such crimes cost older people up to $28 billion annually, researchers say, although those estimates may not reflect the true cost.
If you suspect someone of elder abuse - emotional, physical, psychological or financial - you should report them to adult protective services, or call 911 and report them to local law-enforcement authorities or the district attorney's office.
It's time to find an aggressive criminal attorney who specializes in fraud rather than one who works in trusts and estates. You've done everything right since discovering the embezzlement. But you've had bad luck with more than one lawyer.
Related: 'This scam stuff is going to get worse': A man approached me in my car - he had a crazy story
Previous columns by Quentin Fottrell:
I need $80K to buy my husband out of our home. Do I raid my IRA?
Are Americans squandering their retirement savings on dining out?
I could steal from my children's trust fund without them having a clue
Check out the Moneyist private Facebook group, where we look for answers to life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.
By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.
-Quentin Fottrell
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-21-25 0900ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now These 9 undervalued energy stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 24, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski Sep 22, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility