I finally found an affordable lav mic that competes with my high-end Sonys | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
I finally found an affordable lav mic that competes with my high-end Sonys
Lavalier mics are a dime a dozen, so it's rare I find one that truly catches my attention. The Maono Wave T5 certainly did just that.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 12:30 a.m. PT
Maono Wave T5 Lavalier Mics
ZDNET's key takeaways The Maono Wave T5 mics are available on Amazon for just $89.These versatile lav mics may be cheap, but they don't sound like it.They ultimately don't match the deep resonance you'll get with high-end lavaliers. View now at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I shoot a lot of video: everything from simple interviews to full run-and-gun filmmaking. One of the most challenging aspects of it all is getting good sound. When it comes to audio and film, Murphy's law has a veritable field day. In other words, if it can go wrong… it will.That's why I always carry multiple mics. I use a pair of higher-end Sony lavs for solo interviews or talking head pieces, because their sound quality is outstanding.Also: One of the best podcasting microphones I've tested is not made by Yeti or RodeBut there are times when the Sonys aren't exactly the easiest pair to use. Not only do you have to worry about batteries (they use AA and can drain them quickly), but you also have to worry about rustling and feedback from the mic contacting clothing. So any time I can test a new pair of lavalier mics, I jump at the chance. When Maono sent me the Wave T5, I was more than happy to oblige.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS The Maono Wave T5 lavelier mics. These tiny lav mics sound far better than their price would imply.
details
View at Amazon When I unboxed the mics, my first thought was, "Awww, how cute! I bet these sound hollow and tinny."Boy, was I wrong.Don't misunderstand me, the Wave T5s are no match for the Sonys (which also cost over five times as much), but for fast interviews or when I just have my phone, you can bet these lavs will be taken out of my travel storage and clipped on.
The Wave T5 looks big in my small hand. Jack Wallen/ZDNETMy experienceMy initial impression of the Maono Wave T5 lavalier mics wasn't exactly encouraging. They look unique and they're small, but they do have a few options for attaching them to clothing. You could even use double-sided tape to get creative with mic placement.The first thing I did (after charging the mics for a while - they arrived with depleted batteries) was to connect the receiver to my Sony α7 III camera, connect the clip mount (more on that in a bit), and then attach the clip to my clothing. I hit record and stood in front of the camera to record a short segment of video.Also: Everything you need to start a podcastAfter hitting stop, I removed the SD card from the Sony, inserted it into the card reader attached to my iMac, found the clip, and hit play.Wow. The sound actually impressed me.For such small and lightweight mics, these did a surprisingly good job. As I mentioned earlier, these don't stand up to my Sony lavs, but they certainly sound better than any lavalier I've tested at this price ($89 on Amazon).
You'll find three different receivers in the Wave T5 kit. Jack Wallen/ZDNETThe high-end Sony lavs have more resonance and depth on the low end. But that doesn't mean the Maono mics miss out, either. They do have some depth to them, just not like the Sonys. Given that the Maono mics are far more budget-friendly, they make for a great option. Also: I've tested hundreds of microphones, but a special feature puts this one at the top for meI did test the range of the mics and found I was able to go anywhere in my home (which is only 1,100 square feet) and there was zero interference or lag. Of course, I was testing inside, where I can control the environment. Going outside would probably require that you use the included windscreen to help cut down wind noise.How to attach the micsHere, you have a few options. First off, the mic has a magnet on the back, which means you could easily attach it to a metal surface. And since the mics weigh next to nothing and the magnets are pretty strong, you won't have to worry about them falling.The next method is the attachable clips, which make use of the magnets. The clips are deep and strong enough to remain attached, even with movement.Finally, the Wave T5 mics include a small, round magnet to attach the mic to clothing (so you can strategically place them where you need). With the clips, you're limited to things like lapels, shirt necks, hats, etc. but the magnets let you place the mics wherever. Another option (one that's not included with the mics or even mentioned in the manuals) is using double-sided tape, so you could attach the mic to whatever surface you need.Also: This wireless microphone can handle rainfall and up to 300 meters of range - and I'm genuinely excitedThe receiversThere are three receivers included in the kit:One for connecting via 3.5 mm cable (what I used).One for connecting to an Android phone.One for connecting to an iPhone.Each receiver is very small and easy to use. Even better, the mics are automatically paired with the receiver, so set up takes seconds. These mics are about as fool-proof as you can get (for audio). The 3.5mm receiver does have a clip, so you can attach it to something. I was able to clip it to my Sony camera cage, and it worked just fine. The Wave T5 also includes a 3.5 mm cable, so you won't have to scramble and find one before the shoot. Also: I always recommend this wireless microphone to creative professionalsZDNET's buying adviceWould I ever use these mics for a serious video shoot? No. I would, however, consider them for interviews, where my Sony mics aren't convenient, and as backups.However, if you need a lavalier mic for simpler use (especially when a phone is the only device you have), the Maono Wave T5 lavalier mics are a great buy. You can bet I would very much consider these as a backup, should my Sonys fail. And because these are so incredibly easy to use, I can imagine using them in various situations, when more costly or bulkier mics aren't an option.Maono Wave T5 Lavalier Microphone tech specsWeight - 9g for each mic.Adjustable noise cancellation.80dB signal-to-noise ratio, 120dB maximum sound pressure level, and 48kHz/24-bit audio format,.Dedicated ENC chip and algorithm with three ANC modes and 14-level noise cancellation adjustments (via the MAONO LINK app).Voice Filters: From warm to bright (via the app)Instant Pairing Out of the Box.1000ft Reliable & Stable Transmission9 hours of battery life per transmitter on a single charge, with 30 hours using the case.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
These unusual earbuds were the surprise of the year for me - why they sound so good
I replaced my AirPods Max with the AirPods Pro 3, and didn't mind the $300 price gap
The Nothing Ear 3 have a clever feature I wish my other earbuds had - and they're less than $180
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use