CNET Editors’ Choice: Our Top Picks in Energy Tech, Solar Services and EVs - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home
Article updated on August 14, 2024 at 11:11 AM PDT
Written by
CNET staff
CNET Editors’ Choice: Our Top Picks in Energy Tech, Solar Services and EVs
CNET’s energy editors tested and selected our favorite products and services to help you reach your energy independence goals.
Written by
CNET staff
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Editors' choice
The CNET Editors' Choice distinction represents the strongest recommendation of a product or service evaluated by CNET's experts.
Learn more
OUR WINNERS
Palmetto Solar
Palmetto Solar is perfect for people seeking energy independence for their home through solar, but might be intimidated by the technology and need a little hand holding. Palmetto Solar partners with other top-rated solar equipment such as CNET’s favorite solar panels, battery storage options, quality inverters and a whole-home monitoring software that tracks your consumption, generation and savings progress right from your phone’s app. But Palmetto Solar takes its monitoring service a step further than its competitors, including a proactive monitoring service. This service stands apart in the industry since it will monitor your panels' production and will schedule a service call proactively before you might know there is a problem.  Our favorite thing about Palmetto Solar is its approach to customer care distinguishing the company from its competitors. Yes, most installers these days offer some form of performance monitoring -- usually through an app -- but that responsibility is usually put on the customer to notice. Palmetto Solar stands out for its proactive monitoring and getting ahead of the issue if any problems arise.  We love Palmetto Solar because you can get the best equipment paired with its performance guarantee, parts and labor coverage and top-of-the line menu of solar equipment. During our review process of more than 20 solar companies, we found Palmetto Solar will bring the best customer care throughout the lifetime of your solar panels -- starting from the initial price quote all the way through to design, installation and postinstall monitoring.  – Katie Collins, managing editor Learn more
NRG Clean Power
NRG Clean Power is best for people who want rooftop solar panels in California or Texas needing assurances on price matching and warranty. We found NRG Clean Power to offer two rare things that solve for that: a 40-year warranty and a competitor price match. Both are rare among solar installers, with most competitors averaging around 25 years' warranty and only a handful offering a price-match option.  Our favorite thing about NRG Clean Power is the company’s confident approach to its workmanship, equipment and service. A 40-year lifetime workmanship warranty is industry-leading. The company says it guarantees its work against leaks, performance issues and energy production over the warranty period.  The residential solar business has a history of bad actors that doesn’t help boost the industry’s reputation. Choosing a reputable solar installer that backs up its work and equipment while also price matching competitor quotes is why we love NRG Clean Power. – Katie Collins Learn more
Duracell 100W portable panel
The Duracell 100W Solar Panel is for folks who choose to spend their time outdoors, away from traditional sources of power or seeking alternative power options during an outage. Whether you need to charge your phone or laptop, or just keep a Bluetooth speaker pumping out the tunes, this panel can harness clean energy directly from the sun. That’s reliable, carbon-free charging that won’t let you down.  Above all else, the Duracell 100W Solar Panel provides more power than its competitors. Peaking at a whopping 116 watts in our CNET Labs testing, we found the Duracell solar panel outperformed the specs listed on the box -- a rare occurrence. You can combine it with a portable power station, giving you rechargeability while you wait for power to be restored or extra energy on your next camping trip.  It has a polished user-friendly design but remains rugged and sturdy, despite weighing only 7 pounds. The panel is easy to manipulate to catch the sun from any vantage point, and comes with adaptors to make it simple to connect to batteries that can keep a phone, coffee maker, light or even a sprinkler system going. – Bryan Adams, engineer, CNET Testing Labs Learn more
Dakota Lithium PS2400
The PS2400 by Dakota is a great fit for folks on the go and would like to have some variability in their input/output options. This portable power station has AC and DC inputs and outputs that can charge everything from your phone or laptop to most normal AC-powered devices (think, TV or space heater). It even has a 30-amp twist-lock receptacle for some of those high-powered tools, portable solar panel charging and a wireless charge dock. The main draw for this unit is its charge speed -- it gains a full charge in just over an hour, according to our CNET Labs test results. To date, the PS2400 is the fastest charging portable power station we’ve ever tested, and we’ve tested more than 100 of them. Using a standard residential (20-amp) outlet, the PS2400 will charge at a rate of about 26.67 watt-hours per minute, charging its total 2-kilowatt capacity in 1 hour, 17 minutes.  I love this unit because, despite being newer to the portable power station game, Dakota Lithium is not new to the world of power. The company made its mark in the electric vehicle and electric boat industry first. In my experience, many manufacturers need multiple product cycles to produce great gear, but given Dakota Lithium’s track record in the lithium battery industry, the company has easily leveled up its product line with the PS2400 to bring us another reliable and fast-charging product. – Steven Conaway, director of CNET Testing Labs Learn more
Jackery 2000 Plus
The Jackery Explorer 2000 Plus is one of the best options for people serious about their power portability and capacity. This unit is rugged and sturdy, sure to be popular among the outdoor enthusiasts or those seeking power alternatives during an outage.  My favorite thing about the Jackery Explorer 2000 Plus is its modularity. By adding varying numbers of the Jackery Battery Pack 2000 Plus (adds an additional 2 kilowatts of capacity), you’ll be sure to meet whatever energy needs you have, from large to small. Extend the telescoping handle and take it off-road for an overnight camp. Bring a battery pack or two and some solar panels for days away from home. You could alternatively grab a transfer switch, a second Explorer 2000 Plus and provide backup or off-grid power for your whole home -- up to 24kW. Flexibility. The Explorer 2000 Plus really is a jack(ery)-of-all-trades. It's simplistic enough for your day-to-day power needs, but flexible and nuanced enough to meet nearly any other power related needs you may have since it also sports a massive 3,000-watt output (6,000-watt peak). – Steven Conaway Learn more
Anker Solix F3800
The Anker Solix F3800 is a great fit for people who have “in-between” home power needs. That may be recurring but short power backups, or off-grid or otherwise out-of-the-way residences, like RVs or other travel trailers, or even temporary power needs you might have during construction or major home repairs. I love the F3800’s home power flexibility. Unlike most other units, the Solix F3800 gives you access to both 120VAC as well as 240VAC in one single unit -- most other options require dual units. Having access to 240VAC would be paramount for many people during outages, especially extended ones. Other than electric clothes dryers, many homes feature electric ranges for cooking and most HVAC systems are also built on 240VAC architecture. But again, you can pair two together, and max out expansion batteries for a whopping 53.8 kilowatt-hours of power for your home. For me, the love will always come from the configuration of output ports which fuel the flexibility of how you can use this unit. Having the option to output 240VAC in one unit is a big win along with the savings of basically having the power of two portable batteries in one. You don’t have to spend double the money up front for a second unit, then add in an adapter that runs several hundred dollars to end up with that 240VAC output. Paired with a fairly unusual "appliance" design -- it looks to me more like a mini fridge on wheels -- and you’ve got nearly unlimited potential. – Steven Conaway Learn more
Amazon Smart Thermostat
The Amazon Smart Thermostat is great if you want an app-enabled wireless thermostat that can learn your habits and make adjustments on its own, but you don’t want to spend a ton of money. At $80, it comes in at less than half the cost of thermostats that offer similar features. The Alexa app uses your smart thermostat to identify how much energy you’ve saved with your thermostat settings and when you can reduce your energy usage to minimize using it at times when the grid is dominated by fossil fuels. But while you’re looking at all of this information, it also brings up “fun facts” and energy-saving tips, helping you become a smarter energy consumer even while you’re just turning the air on. The Amazon Smart Thermostat isn’t the perfect smart thermostat -- there are others that have better features and more functions, and its display is basic, boring and has a little bit of a learning curve. But it delivers the core functionality you want in a smart thermostat at a reasonable price, setting it above the rest.– Jon Reed, senior energy editor  Learn more
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium
Some people want a basic and practical thermostat that changes the temperature when you tell it to. Then there are people who want a system that monitors and controls as much of their home as possible, including the temperature in different rooms and their home security system. The Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium is perfect if you’re in that second group. The Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium is like a heads-up display for your house. With a few taps, you can check the four-day weather forecast, see your home’s air quality (it may tell you to open a window) and even check out your security system if you have other Ecobee products. Most interestingly: The thermostat doubles as a speaker, allowing you to play music or listen to an audiobook or podcast on your wall. The Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium has everything you might want or need in a smart thermostat. It comes with every feature we would want in a smart thermostat, including external room sensors, and a few things we didn’t know we wanted.– Jon Reed Learn more
Kia EV9: Best electric SUV
Most new EVs introduced over the past few years have been small SUVs, but for zero-emissions families who need a lot more space, the Kia EV9 stands (literally) head and shoulders above the crowd with its three-row silhouette. More urban family hauler than rugged trail crawler, I was especially impressed by the EV9's low step-in and hip height, which makes loading kids and cargo especially easy. Beneath its handsome, angular exterior, the EV9 is powered by Hyundai/Kia's dedicated electric vehicle platform (E-GMP) technology which is often-praised for its energy efficiency and compact design. Boasting a big battery, the large-scale SUV retains excellent range and is one of the fastest charging EVs in its class. The extra capacity also makes the EV9's bidirectional-charging -- or vehicle-to-load -- feature even more useful for powering critical home appliances during a blackout or energizing your next outdoor adventure. The Kia EV9 is an excellent balance of range, performance, spaciousness and price. It's loaded with intuitive, low-distraction tech. But what I'm most impressed by is the electric SUV's build quality, which leaves me with a good deal of confidence in the reliability of its EV powertrain -- especially having spent thousands of miles behind the wheel of its stablemate, the Kia EV6.– Antuan Goodwin, 16-year automotive and electric cars expert  Learn more
Hyundai Ioniq 5: Best electric car
With its broad range of electric powertrain options, there's a flavor of Ioniq 5 for almost everyone. There's the efficient single-motor, long-range setup, which I think is the sweet spot for most drivers. For those who need more sure-footed agility, there's the dual-motor configuration. There's even a 600-horsepower Ioniq 5 N -- one of the most electrifying hot hatchbacks on the road today -- for those with an insatiable need for speed. A big battery and efficient operation grant the Ioniq 5 excellent range for the price, but this EV stands apart as one of the fastest-charging EV's I've ever tested, rapidly DC charging from 10-80% in as little as 18 minutes under optimal conditions. More impressively, the charging port isn't a one-way street. An inexpensive adapter unlocks bidirectional charging capabilities -- in the form of vehicle-to-load power delivery -- that allows the Ioniq 5 to power equipment at a campsite, a tailgate party or critical home appliances during a blackout. Hyundai's Ioniq 6 sedan and the Kia EV6 crossover share its electrified platform, powertrain, battery and tech, but the Hyundai Ioniq 5's unique geometric style, flexible liftback design and eye-catching pixel-motif lighting distinguish this EV even from its mechanically identical siblings. – Antuan Goodwin Learn more
Toyota Prius Prime: Best plug-in hybrid EV
The Prius Prime is an excellent plug-in hybrid, or PHEV, for anyone looking to spend less time at the pump, from EV-curious drivers not ready (or able) to make the full jump to a battery electric vehicle to folks just looking to save money on gas. Even before you factor the plug-in electric range, the Prime is one of the most fuel-efficient gasoline-powered cars on the road today. The Prime's coolest party trick is its impressive plug-in range -- the most full-electric range of any plug-in hybrid on the road today. This PHEV can cruise for up to 44 miles before waking its gasoline engine. With regular overnight recharges (at a normal 15-amp home outlet), some drivers may not burn a drop of gas for weeks at a time. The fifth-generation Prius rolls out with a smart suite of standard safety and convenience features and high-tech optional equipment. Plus, I think it's one of the best-looking vehicles in Toyota's current portfolio -- an about-face from its awkward looking predecessors. With almost no drawbacks, the Prius Prime is one of the easiest vehicle recommendations I've ever made.– Antuan Goodwin Learn more
Rivian R1T: Best electric pickup truck
The Rivian R1T is the perfect electric pickup for eco-adventurers eager to explore the great outdoors. This electric adventure vehicle not only enables drivers to get outside and enjoy nature, it's packed with unique features that actively encourage it. Those features make it equally appealing for suburban drivers looking for a zero-emissions vehicle with more rugged utility than an SUV. The electric pickup was recently updated with even more powerful dashboard technology and smart connectivity, subtle exterior design revisions and even better range and performance than before. Also new is a more potent quad-motor option -- joining the dual- and tri-motor configs -- with a truly monstrous capacity for acceleration. Every part of the Rivian R1T, from the unique and customizable gear tunnel storage compartment to its playful dashboard tech, feels like it was designed to get you outside and active -- to make you feel like you can (and should) go anywhere. Even the way its silent but extremely capable electric powertrain lets you tackle trails while enjoying the sounds of nature is a unique and rewarding experience. The R1T isn't just a great EV, it's a vibe.– Antuan Goodwin Learn more
OUR WINNERS Palmetto SolarNRG Clean PowerDuracell 100W portable panelDakota Lithium PS2400Jackery 2000 PlusAnker Solix F3800Amazon Smart ThermostatEcobee Smart Thermostat PremiumKia EV9: Best electric SUVHyundai Ioniq 5: Best electric carToyota Prius Prime: Best plug-in hybrid EVRivian R1T: Best electric pickup truck For the first time ever, CNET is expanding its Editors' Choice Awards to include products and services that can help you achieve more energy independence. We're talking about products that help you avoid blackouts, conserve energy, lower your carbon footprint, or save money on your utility and gasoline costs. Editors' Choice is our strongest recommendation — above and beyond placement on a Best List, these are the products that CNET editors can't stop thinking about. Only at CNET will you find the years of expertise and state-of-the-art lab testing facilities to back up these picks including portable solar panels, solar generators, rechargeable backup batteries, smart thermostats and companies that install solar panels on your roof.Since many drivers are on the cusp of EV adoption right now, we also bring you our Editors' Choice picks of electrified vehicles, trucks, SUVs and plug-in hybrids.– Katie Collins, managing editor
Palmetto Solar
Editors' choice
Who is it best for?Palmetto Solar is perfect for people seeking energy independence for their home through solar, but might be intimidated by the technology and need a little hand holding. Palmetto Solar partners with other top-rated solar equipment such as CNET’s favorite solar panels, battery storage options, quality inverters and a whole-home monitoring software that tracks your consumption, generation and savings progress right from your phone’s app. But Palmetto Solar takes its monitoring service a step further than its competitors, including a proactive monitoring service. This service stands apart in the industry since it will monitor your panels' production and will schedule a service call proactively before you might know there is a problem. Our favorite thingOur favorite thing about Palmetto Solar is its approach to customer care distinguishing the company from its competitors. Yes, most installers these days offer some form of performance monitoring -- usually through an app -- but that responsibility is usually put on the customer to notice. Palmetto Solar stands out for its proactive monitoring and getting ahead of the issue if any problems arise. Why we love itWe love Palmetto Solar because you can get the best equipment paired with its performance guarantee, parts and labor coverage and top-of-the line menu of solar equipment. During our review process of more than 20 solar companies, we found Palmetto Solar will bring the best customer care throughout the lifetime of your solar panels -- starting from the initial price quote all the way through to design, installation and postinstall monitoring.  – Katie Collins, managing editor Read our full review.
NRG Clean Power
Editors' choice
Who is it best for?NRG Clean Power is best for people who want rooftop solar panels in California or Texas needing assurances on price matching and warranty. We found NRG Clean Power to offer two rare things that solve for that: a 40-year warranty and a competitor price match. Both are rare among solar installers, with most competitors averaging around 25 years' warranty and only a handful offering a price-match option. Our favorite thingOur favorite thing about NRG Clean Power is the company’s confident approach to its workmanship, equipment and service. A 40-year lifetime workmanship warranty is industry-leading. The company says it guarantees its work against leaks, performance issues and energy production over the warranty period. Why we love itThe residential solar business has a history of bad actors that doesn’t help boost the industry’s reputation. Choosing a reputable solar installer that backs up its work and equipment while also price matching competitor quotes is why we love NRG Clean Power. – Katie Collins Read our full review.
Duracell 100W portable panel
Editors' choice
Who is it best for?The Duracell 100W Solar Panel is for folks who choose to spend their time outdoors, away from traditional sources of power or seeking alternative power options during an outage. Whether you need to charge your phone or laptop, or just keep a Bluetooth speaker pumping out the tunes, this panel can harness clean energy directly from the sun. That’s reliable, carbon-free charging that won’t let you down. Our favorite thingAbove all else, the Duracell 100W Solar Panel provides more power than its competitors. Peaking at a whopping 116 watts in our CNET Labs testing, we found the Duracell solar panel outperformed the specs listed on the box -- a rare occurrence. You can combine it with a portable power station, giving you rechargeability while you wait for power to be restored or extra energy on your next camping trip. Why we love itIt has a polished user-friendly design but remains rugged and sturdy, despite weighing only 7 pounds. The panel is easy to manipulate to catch the sun from any vantage point, and comes with adaptors to make it simple to connect to batteries that can keep a phone, coffee maker, light or even a sprinkler system going. – Bryan Adams, engineer, CNET Testing Labs Read our full review.
Dakota Lithium PS2400
Editors' choice
Steve Conaway/CNET
See at Dakota Lithium
Who is it best for?The PS2400 by Dakota is a great fit for folks on the go and would like to have some variability in their input/output options. This portable power station has AC and DC inputs and outputs that can charge everything from your phone or laptop to most normal AC-powered devices (think, TV or space heater). It even has a 30-amp twist-lock receptacle for some of those high-powered tools, portable solar panel charging and a wireless charge dock.Our favorite thingThe main draw for this unit is its charge speed -- it gains a full charge in just over an hour, according to our CNET Labs test results. To date, the PS2400 is the fastest charging portable power station we’ve ever tested, and we’ve tested more than 100 of them. Using a standard residential (20-amp) outlet, the PS2400 will charge at a rate of about 26.67 watt-hours per minute, charging its total 2-kilowatt capacity in 1 hour, 17 minutes. Why we love itI love this unit because, despite being newer to the portable power station game, Dakota Lithium is not new to the world of power. The company made its mark in the electric vehicle and electric boat industry first. In my experience, many manufacturers need multiple product cycles to produce great gear, but given Dakota Lithium’s track record in the lithium battery industry, the company has easily leveled up its product line with the PS2400 to bring us another reliable and fast-charging product. – Steven Conaway, director of CNET Testing Labs Read our full review.
Jackery 2000 Plus
Editors' choice
Steve Conaway/CNET
Who is it best for?The Jackery Explorer 2000 Plus is one of the best options for people serious about their power portability and capacity. This unit is rugged and sturdy, sure to be popular among the outdoor enthusiasts or those seeking power alternatives during an outage. Our favorite thingMy favorite thing about the Jackery Explorer 2000 Plus is its modularity. By adding varying numbers of the Jackery Battery Pack 2000 Plus (adds an additional 2 kilowatts of capacity), you’ll be sure to meet whatever energy needs you have, from large to small. Extend the telescoping handle and take it off-road for an overnight camp. Bring a battery pack or two and some solar panels for days away from home. You could alternatively grab a transfer switch, a second Explorer 2000 Plus and provide backup or off-grid power for your whole home -- up to 24kW.Why we love itFlexibility. The Explorer 2000 Plus really is a jack(ery)-of-all-trades. It's simplistic enough for your day-to-day power needs, but flexible and nuanced enough to meet nearly any other power related needs you may have since it also sports a massive 3,000-watt output (6,000-watt peak). – Steven Conaway Read our full review.
Anker Solix F3800
Editors' choice
Steve Conaway/CNET
See at Amazon
Who is it best for?The Anker Solix F3800 is a great fit for people who have “in-between” home power needs. That may be recurring but short power backups, or off-grid or otherwise out-of-the-way residences, like RVs or other travel trailers, or even temporary power needs you might have during construction or major home repairs.Our favorite thingI love the F3800’s home power flexibility. Unlike most other units, the Solix F3800 gives you access to both 120VAC as well as 240VAC in one single unit -- most other options require dual units. Having access to 240VAC would be paramount for many people during outages, especially extended ones. Other than electric clothes dryers, many homes feature electric ranges for cooking and most HVAC systems are also built on 240VAC architecture. But again, you can pair two together, and max out expansion batteries for a whopping 53.8 kilowatt-hours of power for your home.Why we love itFor me, the love will always come from the configuration of output ports which fuel the flexibility of how you can use this unit. Having the option to output 240VAC in one unit is a big win along with the savings of basically having the power of two portable batteries in one. You don’t have to spend double the money up front for a second unit, then add in an adapter that runs several hundred dollars to end up with that 240VAC output. Paired with a fairly unusual "appliance" design -- it looks to me more like a mini fridge on wheels -- and you’ve got nearly unlimited potential. – Steven Conaway Read our full review.
Amazon Smart Thermostat
★ Multi-year award winner
Editors' choice
See at Amazon
See at Best Buy
See at B&H Photo-Video
Who is it best for?The Amazon Smart Thermostat is great if you want an app-enabled wireless thermostat that can learn your habits and make adjustments on its own, but you don’t want to spend a ton of money. At $80, it comes in at less than half the cost of thermostats that offer similar features.Our favorite thingThe Alexa app uses your smart thermostat to identify how much energy you’ve saved with your thermostat settings and when you can reduce your energy usage to minimize using it at times when the grid is dominated by fossil fuels. But while you’re looking at all of this information, it also brings up “fun facts” and energy-saving tips, helping you become a smarter energy consumer even while you’re just turning the air on.Why we love itThe Amazon Smart Thermostat isn’t the perfect smart thermostat -- there are others that have better features and more functions, and its display is basic, boring and has a little bit of a learning curve. But it delivers the core functionality you want in a smart thermostat at a reasonable price, setting it above the rest.– Jon Reed, senior energy editor  Read our full review.
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium
Editors' choice
Jon Reed/CNET
See at Amazon
See at Walmart
See at Best Buy
Who is it best for?Some people want a basic and practical thermostat that changes the temperature when you tell it to. Then there are people who want a system that monitors and controls as much of their home as possible, including the temperature in different rooms and their home security system. The Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium is perfect if you’re in that second group.Our favorite thingThe Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium is like a heads-up display for your house. With a few taps, you can check the four-day weather forecast, see your home’s air quality (it may tell you to open a window) and even check out your security system if you have other Ecobee products. Most interestingly: The thermostat doubles as a speaker, allowing you to play music or listen to an audiobook or podcast on your wall.Why we love itThe Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium has everything you might want or need in a smart thermostat. It comes with every feature we would want in a smart thermostat, including external room sensors, and a few things we didn’t know we wanted.– Jon Reed Read our full review.
Kia EV9: Best electric SUV
Editors' choice
Kia
Who is it best for?Most new EVs introduced over the past few years have been small SUVs, but for zero-emissions families who need a lot more space, the Kia EV9 stands (literally) head and shoulders above the crowd with its three-row silhouette. More urban family hauler than rugged trail crawler, I was especially impressed by the EV9's low step-in and hip height, which makes loading kids and cargo especially easy.Our favorite thingBeneath its handsome, angular exterior, the EV9 is powered by Hyundai/Kia's dedicated electric vehicle platform (E-GMP) technology which is often-praised for its energy efficiency and compact design. Boasting a big battery, the large-scale SUV retains excellent range and is one of the fastest charging EVs in its class. The extra capacity also makes the EV9's bidirectional-charging -- or vehicle-to-load -- feature even more useful for powering critical home appliances during a blackout or energizing your next outdoor adventure.Why we love itThe Kia EV9 is an excellent balance of range, performance, spaciousness and price. It's loaded with intuitive, low-distraction tech. But what I'm most impressed by is the electric SUV's build quality, which leaves me with a good deal of confidence in the reliability of its EV powertrain -- especially having spent thousands of miles behind the wheel of its stablemate, the Kia EV6.– Antuan Goodwin, 16-year automotive and electric cars expert  Read our full review.
Hyundai Ioniq 5: Best electric car
Editors' choice
Antuan Goodwin/CNET
Who is it best for?With its broad range of electric powertrain options, there's a flavor of Ioniq 5 for almost everyone. There's the efficient single-motor, long-range setup, which I think is the sweet spot for most drivers. For those who need more sure-footed agility, there's the dual-motor configuration. There's even a 600-horsepower Ioniq 5 N -- one of the most electrifying hot hatchbacks on the road today -- for those with an insatiable need for speed.Our favorite thingA big battery and efficient operation grant the Ioniq 5 excellent range for the price, but this EV stands apart as one of the fastest-charging EV's I've ever tested, rapidly DC charging from 10-80% in as little as 18 minutes under optimal conditions. More impressively, the charging port isn't a one-way street. An inexpensive adapter unlocks bidirectional charging capabilities -- in the form of vehicle-to-load power delivery -- that allows the Ioniq 5 to power equipment at a campsite, a tailgate party or critical home appliances during a blackout.Why we love itHyundai's Ioniq 6 sedan and the Kia EV6 crossover share its electrified platform, powertrain, battery and tech, but the Hyundai Ioniq 5's unique geometric style, flexible liftback design and eye-catching pixel-motif lighting distinguish this EV even from its mechanically identical siblings. – Antuan Goodwin Read our full review.
Toyota Prius Prime: Best plug-in hybrid EV
Editors' choice
Antuan Goodwin/CNET Cars
Who is it best for?The Prius Prime is an excellent plug-in hybrid, or PHEV, for anyone looking to spend less time at the pump, from EV-curious drivers not ready (or able) to make the full jump to a battery electric vehicle to folks just looking to save money on gas. Even before you factor the plug-in electric range, the Prime is one of the most fuel-efficient gasoline-powered cars on the road today.Our favorite thingThe Prime's coolest party trick is its impressive plug-in range -- the most full-electric range of any plug-in hybrid on the road today. This PHEV can cruise for up to 44 miles before waking its gasoline engine. With regular overnight recharges (at a normal 15-amp home outlet), some drivers may not burn a drop of gas for weeks at a time.Why we love itThe fifth-generation Prius rolls out with a smart suite of standard safety and convenience features and high-tech optional equipment. Plus, I think it's one of the best-looking vehicles in Toyota's current portfolio -- an about-face from its awkward looking predecessors. With almost no drawbacks, the Prius Prime is one of the easiest vehicle recommendations I've ever made.– Antuan Goodwin Read our full review.
Rivian R1T: Best electric pickup truck
Editors' choice
Rivian
Who is it best for?The Rivian R1T is the perfect electric pickup for eco-adventurers eager to explore the great outdoors. This electric adventure vehicle not only enables drivers to get outside and enjoy nature, it's packed with unique features that actively encourage it. Those features make it equally appealing for suburban drivers looking for a zero-emissions vehicle with more rugged utility than an SUV.Our favorite thingThe electric pickup was recently updated with even more powerful dashboard technology and smart connectivity, subtle exterior design revisions and even better range and performance than before. Also new is a more potent quad-motor option -- joining the dual- and tri-motor configs -- with a truly monstrous capacity for acceleration.Why we love itEvery part of the Rivian R1T, from the unique and customizable gear tunnel storage compartment to its playful dashboard tech, feels like it was designed to get you outside and active -- to make you feel like you can (and should) go anywhere. Even the way its silent but extremely capable electric powertrain lets you tackle trails while enjoying the sounds of nature is a unique and rewarding experience. The R1T isn't just a great EV, it's a vibe.– Antuan Goodwin Read our full review.
Methodology: How we made this listThe CNET Editors' Choice badge represents the strongest recommendation of a product or service evaluated by CNET experts. The award distinguishes the products and services that have made a lasting impression on CNET's editorial team.To earn an Editors' Choice distinction, a product or service must be a top pick in its category, score a minimum benchmark when rated, or be selected by a CNET expert based on hands-on testing of the product and its competition. Awarded by our experienced editors, enhanced by lab testing in dedicated facilities and more selective than a best-list inclusion or a positive review, readers can know that Editors' Choice Award recipients are the best of the best.
The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners.
See your brand here? Learn more about licensing a CNET award. Learn more
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.