Best iPhone in 2025: Here's Which Apple Phone You Should Buy - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Phones
Best iPhone in 2025: Here's Which Apple Phone You Should Buy
Apple's new iPhone 17 line and the iPhone Air are available and we've updated some of our picks after testing.
Our Experts
Written by
Patrick Holland
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Written by
Lisa Eadicicco
Article updated on September 19, 2025 at 3:08 PM PDT
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr. Expertise Apple | iPhone | iOS | Android | Samsung | Sony | Google | Motorola | Interviews | Coffee equipment | Cats Credentials Patrick's play The Cowboy is included in the Best American Short Plays 2011-12 anthology. He co-wrote and starred in the short film Baden Krunk that won the Best Wisconsin Short Film award at the Milwaukee Short Film Festival.
See full bio
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Lisa Eadicicco Former Senior Editor Lisa Eadicicco covered mobile devices. Prior to joining CNET, she served as a senior tech correspondent at Insider, reporting on Apple and the broader consumer tech industry. She was also a tech columnist for Time magazine and got her start as a staff writer for Laptop Mag and Tom's Guide. Expertise Apple | Samsung | Google | Smartphones | Smartwatches | Wearables | Fitness trackers
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
iOS or Android?
If your family and friends are on Apple services like iMessage and FaceTime, stick with an iPhone. If you’ve been deep on Samsung, stay on Android. But know that switching between the two has never been easier.
Size
Phones are big in general, with the smallest ones having a 6.1-inch screen and larger models topping out at 6.9 inches. That makes visiting a store and trying a phone out before you buy it quite important.
Cameras
Phone cameras have gotten better in the past five years. But don’t be fooled by how many cameras a phone has. More is not necessarily better.
Software support
Phone makers promise varying lengths of long-term software and security support, ranging from just one year to as many as seven. These updates not only ensure you get many of the latest features but also keep your phone secure.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Apple's new iPhone line is now in stores and includes the standard iPhone 17, the thin iPhone Air and the powerful iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max. These new phones replace the iPhone 16 line as the top flagship models. We've tested and reviewed the iPhone Air and iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max and have added them to our picks for the best iPhone. We are still testing the regular iPhone 17 and will update this story once we have. But between the new iPhone models, the iPhone 16E and older models like the iPhone 16, you have a lot of options when buying a new iPhone. If you are looking for discounts, here is a roundup of our iPhone Air and iPhone 17 line deals. Our Picks
Best iPhone Apple iPhone 16
Jump to details
$830 at T-Mobile USA
Jump to details
Best premium iPhone iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max
Jump to details
$1,099 at Apple
Jump to details
Best sleek phone iPhone Air
Jump to details
$999 at Apple
Jump to details
Best entry level iPhone Apple iPhone 16E
Jump to details
$599 at Apple
Jump to details
Best iPhone under $700 iPhone 15
Jump to details
$501 at Amazon
Jump to details
MOBILE DEALS OF THE WEEK
iPhone 17 Pro Max (With Eligible Trade-In, Unlimited Plan):  $100 (save $1,100)
Samsung Galaxy S25 128GB With Unlimited Plan for $30 Per Month ($720 Upfront):  $360 (save $440)
Google Pixel 9a 128GB Unlocked Phone With Gemini (Obsidian):  $449 (save $50)
OnePlus 13R 256GB Unlocked Phone (Nebula Noir):  $550 (save $50)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best iPhone in 2025: Here's Which Apple Phone You Should Buy
What's the best iPhone right now?
Best iPhones of 2025
Best iPhone
Best premium iPhone
Best sleek phone
Best entry level iPhone
Best iPhone under $700
Best iPhone models compared
Recent updates
Factors to consider when buying a new iPhone
How we test iPhone models
Other iPhones we tested
Key terms
iPhone FAQs
What to look forward to in 2025
This story is part of
Gift Guide, our year-round collection of the best gift ideas.
What's the best iPhone right now?We are currently testing the standard iPhone 17. So at this point, our top pick hasn't changed. The best iPhone for most people is the $699 iPhone 16, which is $100 cheaper than it was a few weeks ago. We think the iPhone 16 and 16 Plus are ideal for most people looking for a great phone that will last for years. It comes in two sizes: a 6.1-inch regular iPhone 16 model or a larger, 6.7-inch iPhone 16 Plus model that starts at $899. The phones have a new 12-megapixel ultrawide camera that performs better in low light and can now take macro photos, meaning you'll be able to focus close to take amazing food snaps.The iPhone 16 and 16 Plus have a handful of Apple Intelligence tools for writing, removing distractions from photos and creating summaries of messages and web pages. There's also ChatGPT integration with Siri. The phones have an Action button, too, which can be programmed for different functions including turning on the flashlight, recording a voice memo and changing the focus mode. There's also a new Camera Control button that not only lets you take photos and quickly change things like zoom, Portrait mode aperture and Photographic Styles, but can also trigger a new feature called Visual Intelligence, which will add context to whatever the camera is pointed at.Best iPhones of 2025
Numi Presarn/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Numi Presarn/CNET
Best iPhone
Apple iPhone 16
Pros
Camera Control is useful for switching camera settings
Photographic Styles makes photos pop
Ultrawide camera is better in low light
Cons
Apple Intelligence isn’t out yet
No always on display
No changes to wired charging speeds
No upgrades to the Action button
When I tested the iPhone 16 and 16 Plus I was definitely impressed by the new photography features, the convenient Action button and the elegant build. I consider these phones to be top-notch choices for Apple fans. Parts of the iPhone 16’s key feature, Apple Intelligence, are now out, and the fact that these phones will support it means they’ll likely feel future-proofed for years to come. Aside from screen size (6.1 inches on the regular, 6.7 inches on the Plus), battery size and price, the iPhone 16 and 16 Plus are identical in every way.The iPhone 16 isn’t perfect -- it’s missing an always-on display and it feels like it’s been ages since Apple improved its wired charging speeds. But it checks all the important boxes and then some.Why we like itThe iPhone 16 and 16 Plus rank so high in our testing because the phones appeal to novice users and power players. They offer about 90% of the experience of Apple's Pro models but cost hundreds of dollars less. Not only is the iPhone 16 a wonderful phone out of the box, Apple has a long track record of updating its software and security patches for years.Who it's best forWhen you think about how the Camera Control key, the Action button and the Dynamic Island come together, along with the camera and battery improvements Apple has made in the last several years, the iPhone 16 is a compelling upgrade for someone coming from an older iPhone, especially if that person is on an iPhone 13 or older. For those who don’t need the Pro’s extra photography prowess and battery life, the iPhone 16 won’t disappoint. Who shouldn’t get itI wouldn't recommend buying the iPhone 16 just for the Camera Control button or the better ultrawide camera.  ... Show more
Get it now
$830 at T-Mobile USA
$745 at Amazon
$830 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.1 inches and 6.7 inchesProcessor
Apple A18Camera
48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 12-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Ultramarine (blue), pink, teal, black and white
Add to compare
Celso Bulgatti/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
While the cosmic orange color gets all the attention, the iPhone 17 Pro looks dapper in dark blue. Curiously, there isn't a black or space grey version of the Pro. Celso Bulgatti/CNET
Best premium iPhone
iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max
Pros
The 17 Pro Max's incredible battery life
The brighter screen looks fantastic
Center Stage camera with the ability to take landscape selfies vertically is sweet
Cons
Wished Dual Capture had a 50/50 split
Live Translation's Siri voice can overlap with speakers
iPhone 17 Pro battery life is on par with the iPhone 16 Pro
Expensive
From the first moment I picked up the new $1,199 iPhone 17 Pro Max and $1,099 17 Pro, I was beguiled by their bold, bright redesign. It's a complete turnaround from the years of Apple's subdued titanium motif. The square camera bump of previous Pro models is now a body-wide bar that Apple calls the "camera plateau." The 17 Pro and Pro Max now come in actual colors -- you won't find one in black or space gray. This phone, especially in cosmic orange, wants you to look at it.As I tested the new Pro phones, I was consistently impressed: Even after a full day of heavy use, the Pro Max's battery still had 22% or more left. The iPhone 17 Pro Max has the best battery life of any phone that CNET has ever tested.The 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max have the exact same rear cameras, all with 48-megapixel sensors. You can choose among the trio of lenses (wide-angle, ultrawide and telephoto) to capture photos at 12-megapixel, 24-megapixel or 48-megapixel resolutions. The telephoto camera has gone from the 16 Pro's 12-megapixel sensor with a 5x lens to a 48-megapixel sensor that's 56% larger with a new 4x telephoto lens. You read that right: The new Pro has a shorter optical zoom than its predecessor. But I find the short 4x zoom better for portraits and the increase in detail and dynamic range in 4x photos is a big improvement over 5x snaps from the 16 Pro.There's a new selfie camera on both Pro phones that Apple calls Center Stage. It not only takes 18-megapixel selfies, up from 12 megapixels on the 16 Pro, but you can hold the 17 Pro vertically and take a horizontal selfie thanks to a new square image sensor.I can't help but contrast the iPhone 17 Pro models to Apple's newest phone. The iPhone Air is thin, light, quiet and graceful -- with a single rear camera, shorter battery life and $100 cheaper starting price. The 17 Pro and Pro Max are bold, loud, aggressive and powerful, and their daring design appeals to me. But features such as its amazing battery life, brighter screen, new selfie camera and iOS 26 are the real reasons to get either.Why we like itI appreciate that Apple gave the iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max personality. Gone is the minimal design for the sake of being simple. We have a phone that is more durable, has a longer battery life and, when running iOS 26, comes with a number of significant quality of life improvements like Live Translations for calls, texts and FaceTime calls.Who it's best forThe iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max would be an excellent upgrade for someone coming from an iPhone 14 Pro or older. You get a bigger battery, a better screen, faster charging, newer cameras and a speedier processor that can handle graphics-intensive games and Apple Intelligence.Who shouldn't get itIf you have an iPhone 15 Pro or Pro Max, you don't need these new phones unless that battery capacity on your current phone is low -- and even then, it'd be cheaper to simply have your battery swapped out. And unless you have a gracious disposable income, iPhone 16 Pro and Pro Max owners can sit this one out.Read CNET's iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max review.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,099 at Apple
$1,099 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.3 or 6.9 inchesProcessor
Apple A19 ProCameras
48-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto), 18-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Silver, dark blue, cosmic orange
Add to compare
Celso Bulgatti/ Zooey Liao/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Celso Bulgatti/ Zooey Liao/ CNET
Best sleek phone
iPhone Air
Pros
Slick, lightweight design
Surprisingly good battery life (sometimes)
Impressively durable
iOS 26 looks great
Cons
Single rear camera
Scaled-back speaker
Only charges up to 20 watts
High $999 price tag
The iPhone Air is the ultimate refresh if you're looking for something that looks and feels drastically different from most other devices on the market. It's strikingly lightweight and slim, measuring just 5.6mm thick and clocking in at 165 grams. If you're worried about durability, design elements like the titanium frame, Ceramic Shield 2 front and Ceramic Shield backing keep it from bending out of shape in your pocket. A generous 6.5-inch display makes it comfortable to hold and enjoyable to watch videos or play games on.That doesn't mean there aren't tradeoffs, which feel especially weighty given the iPhone Air's $999 price tag. A slimmer battery can mean shorter life on heavy-use days, and a single rear camera means you don't get ultrawide shots or Cinematic mode in video. There's also only a single speaker instead of the dual-speaker system on other iPhones, which can make audio less immersive. The iPhone Air only supports up to 20-watt charging, as opposed to the 40-watt charging you'll find on its iPhone 17 counterparts. But if you're willing to make some compromises, the super-sleek iPhone Air can be an enjoyable investment.Read CNET's iPhone Air review.Why we like itAnnual phone upgrades typically feel incremental but the iPhone Air shakes things up with a bold new design that rivals other thin phones like the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge. The Air is remarkably light, which makes it enjoyable to use, and won't weigh down your purse or pocket. Despite its shorter battery life under heavy-use conditions, the iPhone Air performed well in CNET's battery tests and should hold up just fine on moderate use days.Who it's best forIf you're not a particularly heavy phone user and want a device that puts design at the forefront, the iPhone Air could be a solid choice. Despite a scaled-back camera, the single rear 48-megapixel camera can also take solid 2x zoom photos, and an 18-megapixel selfie camera matches what you'll find on the iPhone 17, 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max.Who shouldn't get itOn the other hand, if you do use your phone a lot and have an affinity for photography, the iPhone Air might not be the best choice for you. The lack of an ultrawide (plus no telephoto) lens might feel a bit too restricted, and the battery may not be able to keep up with your more extensive screen time.  ... Show more
Get it now
$999 at Apple
$999 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.5 inchesProcessor
Apple A19 ProCameras
48-megapixel (wide), 18-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Space black, cloud white, light gold, sky blue
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best entry level iPhone
Apple iPhone 16E
Pros
Does most of the Apple stuff I want
Battery life is great
Matte finish back
The rear camera is good
A18 chip performance
Cons
$599 price isn't cheap
Odd value proposition
Lacks MagSafe
Screen is good, but wonder how it will age
Apple took a Taco Bell-like approach with the $599 iPhone 16E, mixing and matching parts and features from prior phones to create a "new" iPhone. Its design and screen are similar to the iPhone 14. Its A18 processor is the same as the one in the iPhone 16. In my testing, I found that this gives the iPhone 16E a weird value proposition. It's new, but it's old. It's affordable, but not cheap.If you're rocking an iPhone SE, an iPhone 11 or older, the 16E will be a nice upgrade in every way, from the camera to the battery life -- although you might miss that ultrawide camera. I also think that this is a good phone for people using Android phones who want to switch and dip the proverbial toe into Apple's waters. I do recommend looking into carrier deals, discounts and trade-ins to drop that price a bit, unless you're set on doing an installment plan over a couple of years. Read our iPhone 16E review.Why we like itAfter testing the iPhone 16E, I was most surprised by how wonderfully uneventful it was to use. Along with all the standard iOS 18 functions and goodies, like iMessage and FaceTime, I used Apple Intelligence, made calls on 5G, took a bunch of share-worthy photos and videos and played video games like Resident Evil 4. If this is all you want in an iPhone, look no further.Who it's best forIf you're rocking an iPhone SE, an iPhone 11 or older, the 16E will be a nice upgrade in every way, from the camera to the day plus battery life -- though you might miss that ultrawide camera. I also think that this is a good phone for people using Android phones who want to switch and dip the proverbial toe into Apple's waters.Who shouldn't get itChoosing between the $829 iPhone 16 and the $599 16E is a tough choice. If you have the budget, I'd go with the regular 16. You get a brighter screen, MagSafe, and an ultrawide camera that doubles as a macro lens -- great for taking close-up photos such as food as the main camera automatically switches to a cropped version of the ultrawide in order to nail focus.  ... Show more
Get it now
$599 at Apple
$600 at Best Buy
$442 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.1 inchesProcessor
Apple A18Camera
48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Black, white
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best iPhone under $700
iPhone 15
Pros
USB-C port is more convenient charging
Colorful matte design
Improved camera that can automatically take people and pet portraits
Dynamic Island brings better multitasking
Cons
No always-on display
Find My Friends feature only works with other iPhone 15 phones
Discounted iPhone 14 Pro may be a better value
Galaxy S24 offers a longer optical zoom
With the launch of the iPhone 16, the regular iPhone 15 is being sold at a discount -- $100 off. That means that the iPhone 15 now starts at $699. And you might be able to find steeper discounts throughout the coming weeks and months. With the Dynamic Island, a USB-C port for more convenient charging and a high resolution camera and a sharper digital zoom, I found the iPhone 15 to be a significant upgrade for those with older iPhones.The iPhone 15 is available in two size options: the 6.1-inch iPhone 15 and the 6.7-inch iPhone 15 Plus. They run on the same chip as iPhone 14 Pro, the A16 Bionic, which should bring notable performance upgrades to those with an iPhone that's several years old. These phones also have Apple's second-generation ultra wideband chip, enabling a new feature that makes it easier to find friends or family members in a crowd that I found handy. Read our full iPhone 15 review.Why we like itThe iPhone 15 and 15 Plus are heavily influenced by the iPhone 14 Pro. That includes the Dynamic Island, a dedicated area near the top of the screen for viewing time-sensitive data like your Uber's ETA, and the A16 Bionic processor. Overall, these changes come together to make the iPhone 15 feel like a big step forward for those upgrading from an aging iPhone.Who it's best forThe iPhone 15 is for someone coming from an iPhone 12 or older. In 2025, Apple sells it for $699. But I recommend looking for one that's discounted. If you're contemplating the iPhone 16E but really want an ultrawide camera (remember the 16E only has a single rear camera) and MagSafe charging, then grab an iPhone 15.Who shouldn't get itApple sells the $599 iPhone 16E which makes the iPhone 15 a curious value. If you can score a discounted iPhone 15 I'd go that way. But otherwise, the iPhone 16E might be a better buy.  ... Show more
Get it now
$501 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.1 inches or 6.7 inches (Plus)Processor
Apple A16 BionicCameras
48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 12-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Blue, pink, yellow, green, black
Add to compareBest iPhone models compared
Apple iPhone 17Apple iPhone AirApple iPhone 17 ProApple iPhone 17 Pro MaxApple iPhone 16EApple iPhone 16Apple iPhone 15 Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.5-inch OLED; 2,736 x 1,260 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.9-inch OLED; 2,868 x 1,320 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.1-inch OLED display; 2,532x1,170 pixels; 60Hz refresh rate6.1-inch OLED; 2,556 x 1,179 pixel resolution; 60Hz refresh rate6.1-inch OLED; 2,556x1,179 pixelsPixel density 460ppi460ppi460ppi460ppi460 ppi460 ppi460 ppiDimensions (inches) 5.89 x 2.81 x 0.31 in6.15 x 2.94 x 0.22 in5.91 x 2.83 x 0.34 in6.43 x 3.07 x 0.34 in5.78 x 2.82 x 0.31 in.5.81 x 2.82 x 0.31 in2.82 x 5.81 x 0.31 inDimensions (millimeters) 149.6 x 71.5 x 7.95 mm156.2 x 74.7 x 5.64 mm150.0 x 71.9 x 8.75 mm163.4 x 78.0 x 8.75 mm146.7 x 71.5 x 7.8 mm147.6 x 71.6 x 7.8 mm71.6 x 147.6 x 7.8 mmWeight (grams, ounces) 177 g (6.24 oz)165 g (5.82 oz)206 g (7.27 oz)233 g (8.22 oz)167g (5.88 oz.)170 g (6 oz.)171g (6.02 oz)Mobile software iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26iOS 18iOS 18iOS 17Camera 48-megapixel (wide)
48-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide)48-megapixel (wide)
48-megapixel (ultrawide)
48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide)
48-megapixel (ultrawide)
48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide)48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide)Front-facing camera 18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixel12-megapixel12-megapixel12-megapixelVideo capture 4K4K4K4K4K4K4KProcessor Apple A19Apple A19 ProApple A19 ProApple A19 ProApple A18Apple A18A16 BionicRAM + storage RAM N/A + 256GB, 512GBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBRAM unknown + 128GB, 256GB, 512GBRAM N/A + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB128GB, 256GB, 512GBExpandable storage NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNone (Face ID)NoneBattery Up to 30 hours video playback; up to 27 hours video playback (streamed)Up to 27 hours video playback; up to 22 hours video playback (streamed).
Up to 40 hours video playback, up to 35 hours video playback (streamed) with iPhone Air MagSafe BatteryUp to 33 hours video playback; up to 30 hours video playback (streamed).Up to 39 hours video playback; up to 35 hours video playback (streamed).Up to 26 hours video playback, 21 hours streamed video playback, 90 hours of audio playback. 20W wired charging, 7.5W Qi wireless chargingUp to 22 hours video playback; up to 18 hours video playback (streamed). 20W wired charging. MagSafe wireless charging up to 25W with 30W adapter or higher; Qi2 up to 15WUndisclosed; Apple claims up to 20 hours of video playback (16 hours streamed)Fingerprint sensor None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None, Face IDNone (Face ID)None (Face ID)Connector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-C (USB 2.0)Headphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneSpecial features Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, mist blue, sage, lavender. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Apple C1X cellular modem. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: space black, cloud white, light gold, sky blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 20W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Action button, Apple C1 5G modem, Apple Intelligence, Ceramic Shield, Emergency SOS, satellite connectivity, IP68 resistanceApple Intelligence, Action button, Camera Control button, Dynamic Island, 1 to 2,000 nits display brightness range, IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, pink, teal, ultramarine.Dynamic Island; 5G (mmw/Sub6); MagSafe; water resistant (IP68); wireless charging; eSIM; satellite connectivityUS price starts at $829 (256GB)$999 (256GB)$1,099 (256GB)$1,199 (256GB)$599 (128GB)$829 (128GB)$799 (128GB), $899 (256GB), $1,099 (512GB)
Recent updates
In September 2025, we added the iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 Pro Max to this list. The new Pro phones replace the iPhone 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max. Factors to consider when buying a new iPhone
Hold the iPhone first: You may love or hate the way it looks and feels in person.Don't discount the last year's model: Apple has a history of keeping recent iPhone models from previous years around at a lower price. You can get a great phone that does almost everything that a new iPhone can do for a fraction of the price. The iPhone 16 packs a great camera and a big battery, but comes at a more reasonable price.Buy an iPhone case and screen protector: You'll protect your iPhone from costly damage and will increase the phone's resale or trade-in value when you're ready to move on.Know what you care about most: Is it screen size? Camera quality? Battery life? Phones like the iPhone 17 Pro or Pro Max, for example, pack incredible cameras that almost rival the quality you'd get from a DSLR. If you're a photographer, then spending money here is a good idea.Seek out holiday discounts: Look for deep discounts and promo deals around major holidays, especially Amazon's Prime Day and Cyber Monday. And find out what your grace period is in case you need a quick return or exchange. How we test iPhone models
We test every iPhone in real-world scenarios focusing on its features, design, performance, cameras, battery life and overall value. We document our findings in an initial review that is periodically updated when there are new iOS updates or to compare against new phones from competitors like Samsung, Google and OnePlus.
John Kim/CNETPhotographyPhotography is a major focus for the iPhone, so we take pictures and videos of various subjects in a variety of settings and lighting scenarios. We try out any new camera modes, such as 4K 120fps slow-mo video that debuted with the iPhone 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max.Battery lifeBattery testing is conducted in a variety of ways. We assess how long the iPhone lasts during a typical day of use, and note how it performs during more focused sessions of video calls, media streaming and gaming. We also conduct a video playback test and a 45-minute drain test starting with a full battery, which isn't always included in the initial review and added later in an update.
Tharon Green/CNETPerformance measuringWe use benchmarking apps to measure the performance, alongside our own anecdotal experiences using the phone for our review. Of particular note are how graphics and animations look. Are they smooth? Or do they lag or stutter? We also look at how quickly the phone switches between horizontal and vertical orientations and how fast the camera app opens and is ready to take a photo.
Emergency SOS might be one of the most important features to come out on any phone this year. Kevin Heinz/CNETWe perform processor-heavy tasks like editing photos and videos, exporting videos and playing games. We evaluate whether a newer version of the iPhone includes enough features to make it worth upgrading from older models. Some of these tests are added later in updates after the initial review is published. Read more: How CNET Tests Phones Other iPhones we tested
While Apple doesn't sell the iPhone 15 Pro, you can still find it at carriers and third-party retailers. The 15 Pro has a 6.1-inch adaptive-refresh rate screen that adjusts between 1-120Hz depending on what's on the screen. It has excellent cameras, a fast processor, an always-on display, supports iOS 18 and safety features like Crash Detection and Emergency SOS via Satellite. Driving all these upgrades is Apple's A17 Pro chip which in use feels peppy. The iPhone 15 Pro is still an excellent phone in 2025. Check out our iPhone 15 Pro review. Key terms
eSIMAn eSIM takes all of the important information about your phone account -- including its number, wireless carrier and subscription -- and stores it in software instead of on a physical SIM card.With the iPhone 14, 15 and 16 series Apple removed the physical SIM card tray and embraced embedded SIM cards in the US. This means you can't just pluck your SIM card out of your current phone and put it into a new one. But this shouldn't affect your experience since all the major US carriers and a number of smaller operators work with eSIM.Apple has long supported eSIM, dating back to 2018's iPhone XS, XS Max and XR. When setting up a new iPhone 14, 15 or 16, tthe device will guide you through transferring your current provider over to the new phone. A list of supported wireless networks can be found on Apple's website.iOS 26Apple's iOS 26 animations have seemingly comic book character abilities. Every time I unlock my phone, the apps delightfully assemble on the home screen like the five lion robots uniting together to become Voltron. The lock screen clock extends around my chosen photo like Mr. Fantastic. The control center pulls down as if I were stretching a piece of taffy.The unified look of the Liquid Glass interface across apps, the Home Screen and lock screen give the iPhone a contemporary, slick and shiny, plastic candy feel. For all the beauty Liquid Glass adds, though, some of the warmth of previous iOS versions is gone.There are small but significant gems buried in iOS 26's design, including the ability to add a background image to group chats in Messages or use the new Hold Assist tool for phone calls. iPhone FAQs
When is the best time of year to buy a new iPhone?
Typically you will find the best deals on iPhones the month after new models launch. That means with the iPhone 17 launch in September, the best discounts and trade-in deals will be from early-September to early-October.
Show more
iPhone or Android?
In the early days of smartphones the iPhone vs. Android rivalry was at it peak. But in 2025, the difference between Android and iOS has shrunk quite a bit. Nearly everything you can do on an iPhone, you can do on an Android phone and vice versa. If you are trying to decide between buying an iPhone or Android phones, first start by seeing what phones your family and closest friends use. For example, if your family is on iPhone and uses services like iMessage and FaceTime, then it makes sense to shop for an iPhone.
Show more
Should I wait for the new iPhone model (iPhone 17)?
The iPhone 17 is now out, so there's no need to wait.
Show more
How reliable is an iPhone?
Apple has been selling iPhones since 2007. The current lineup was released in September 2025 and all have a dust and water resistance rating of IP68, which means they can survive being submerged under 6 meters of water (about 20 feet) for 30 minutes. The screens are covered in Apple's Ceramic Shield 2 which is a glass-ceramic material created by Corning, in collaboration with Apple, and consists of nano-ceramic crystals embedded in the glass matrix. It's highly transparent, and according to Corning, the tough structure formed by the crystals means it's less likely to break.
Show more
How long does an iPhone last?
One way to measure how long an iPhone will last is to look at the software and security support Apple offers for older models. iOS 26 can run on Apple phones as old as 2019's iPhone 11, 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max. That's roughly six years of software support. Compare that to Samsung, which offers seven years of Android version upgrades and security updates. But software is only half the equation. The other part is hardware and durability. Every iPhone Apple sells has an IP rating for dust and water resistance. Newer models also have Ceramic Shield, a glass-ceramic hybrid, that covers the display and is very durable.
Show more
What to look forward to in 2025
Apple's just debuted iPhone 17 line features plenty of new changes, with the thin iPhone Air stealing the spotlight. Many of the best new iPhone features are heading to the entire line of 2025 iPhone models, including an 18-megapixel Center Stage front-facing camera that allows for horizontal and vertical selfies without needing to rotate the phone. We don't expect Apple to release any new iPhones until 2026.
About the Author
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland Managing Editor
Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr.
Read full bio
Also written by
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology ReporterAlso written by
Lisa Eadicicco Former Senior Editor
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.