r - How to build a logistic regression model with a cross-level interaction on clustered data with a low number of clusters? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to build a logistic regression model with a cross-level interaction on clustered data with a low number of clusters? [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
8 days ago
Modified
8 days ago
Viewed
47 times
Part of R Language Collective
0
Closed. This question does not meet Stack Overflow guidelines. It is not currently accepting answers.
This question does not appear to be about programming within the scope defined in the help center.
Closed 8 days ago.
Improve this question
I am currently testing hypotheses about political behavior on multi-country survey data using R. One of the hypotheses involves a cross-level interaction, where an individual-level characteristic A interacts with a country-level characteristic B. To test the hypothesis in the full dataset, I have successfully built a multilevel logistic regression model that finds no significant interaction. Now I want to investigate possible differences by region, to see whether an interaction can be observed in a restricted subset of the countries, but not elsewhere. That restricted subset contains 10 countries.
A reduced multilevel model would not be adequate here, as the number of countries is too low. My next thought was to build a simple fixed effects-model with country dummies, including the cross-level interaction. I understand that I have cannot trust the standard errors and hence significance levels that the glm output gives me, as it does not correct for the clustering in the data. But clustered standard errors also appear to have a lower boundary of the number of clusters for which they produce valid results, and ten seems a bit too low.
I tried to use ChatGPT to find out what to do, and it suggests bootstrapping methods. But this has only taken me down a rabbit hole of ever more obscure procedures and packages that all do not work. The package clusterinfer, which I installed from GitHub, fails to compute the Hessian matrix, the package fwildclusterboot from R-Universe only works for OLS regression, while an alternative solution (the mathematics of which are not clear to me) using the vcovCR command from clubSandwich seems to confuse R. The procedure never finishes, and the only option is to restart RStudio. I also tried this command on a very reduced model to see if my model configuration causes the problem, but the same thing happens.
Before trying to get this command to run, I wanted to take a step back and see if I did not misunderstand something. It seems odd to me that building a logit regression model with a cross-level interaction for a small number of clusters turns out to be so complex. I would imagine that researchers do this relatively frequently.
So I would greatly appreciate any advice on what kind of model I can build to test my hypothesis, and ideally also on my options of doing this in R.
rlogistic-regression
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited Sep 17 at 11:19
SpecialK201SpecialK201
asked Sep 17 at 10:57
SpecialK201SpecialK201
12977 bronze badges
2
1
if you want to account for country level clustering doesn't including country as a fixed effect (along with the interaction) in glm achieve this? In any case you might want to also look at miceadds::glm.cluster
Stephen
–
Stephen
2025-09-17 11:49:54 +00:00
Commented
Sep 17 at 11:49
3
If you want data modeling advice/feedback, you should instead ask your question at Cross Validated instead. This is not a specific programming question that's appropriate for Stack Overflow
MrFlick
–
MrFlick
2025-09-17 13:09:06 +00:00
Commented
Sep 17 at 13:09
Add a comment
|
Related questions
1
IV for logistic regression with clustered standard errors in R
0
Binomial logistic regression with categorical predictors and interaction (binomial family argument and p-value differences)
0
What is the purpose of Logit function? At what stage of model building process this logit function is used?
Related questions
1
IV for logistic regression with clustered standard errors in R
0
Binomial logistic regression with categorical predictors and interaction (binomial family argument and p-value differences)
0
What is the purpose of Logit function? At what stage of model building process this logit function is used?
0
How to reduce a categorical variable in a logistic regression model in R
4
clustering standard errors within MLMs/lme4
Load 2 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
rlogistic-regression
See similar questions with these tags.
R Language
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
The history and future of software development (part 1)
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
List of crowdsourced math projects actively seeking participants
Are there any alternatives to electricity that work/behave in a similar way?
Another Slitherlink Next Step
If 3-D is too easy, go 4-D
What is the exact method of calculating a number needed to treat (NNT) in a meta-analysis?
Simplification of an analytically evaluated integral expressed in terms of elliptic integrals
What's the cents value of these SMuFL accidentals?
At high pressures, is aromaticity affected?
What happens to academic grants if you leave for industry?
Which driving direction syncs with Quebec’s and Maritime Canada’s autumn leaf colors?
What happens when the jewels run out?
Time traveler named Tom/John forgets device, Penelope Weschler, machine harvests Earth's spin
Comparing a combination of data from two columns to another combination from other two columns
How to delete a file with a very long (and very strange) filename in Windows?
Can the price of a gap option be negative?
Yet Another Python Weather Visualizer using Open-Meteo
Removing temporary LaTeX files
Where was the Kenya sequence in The Crown Episode 1 filmed?
Separating trefoil knot on torus
General inquiries about the Ersatzinfinitiv
What "real mistakes" exist in the Messier catalog?
3 variables cyclic rearrangement inequality.
What is the exact meaning of olcAccess: {1}to dn.exact="" by * read
What is the song that plays in "Highlander," season 6, episode 13?
more hot questions
lang-r
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.25.34480