All the games coming to Xbox Game Pass in the second half of September 2025
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
xbox
Alongside Call of Duty and more
Hades returns to Game Pass this month
By
Austin Manchester
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
A cult horror hit is finally getting a re-release in time for Halloween
3 days ago
The stunning brilliance of Silksong's Hornet hover
5 days ago
2025's creepiest video game movie has the potential to redefine the genre
4 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Supergiant Games
Hades celebrates its five-year 1.0 launch anniversary with a return to Game Pass on Sept. 17. It highlights the second wave of titles coming to Game Pass in September. SuperGiant Games' Hades is one of the best roguelikes around, and was previously a Game Pass staple. You play as Zagreus, son of Hades (the god of the dead), as he fights his way out of Hades (the underworld). Its gameplay is fast and frantic as Zagreus uses a variety of weapons, like a trident or a gun, to vanquish his foes of the underworld (and his papa). Hades returns to Game Pass at the perfect moment as players might want to sharpen their reflexes in time for the 1.0 release of Hades 2 a week later. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 (the 2023 game, not the original 2011 one) will be made available with Game Pass Standard on Sept. 17. It closes out the rebooted Modern Warfare trilogy, though a rushed development period resulted in a disappointing campaign capper for the series. But, hey, at least this Modern Warfare has a zombies mode. Here's everything hitting Game Pass by the end of September:
RoadCraft (Cloud and Xbox Series X) (Game Pass Ultimate, Game Pass Standard)
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 (Console) (Now with Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 17
For the King 2 (Console) (Now with Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 17
Overthrown (Game Preview) (Xbox Series X) (Now with Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 17
Deep Rock Galactic: Survivor (Cloud, PC, and Xbox Series X) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass) – Sept. 17
Frostpunk 2 (Cloud and Xbox Series X) (Game Pass Ultimate) – Sept. 18
Wobbly Life (Cloud, PC, and Xbox Series X) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass, Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 18
Hades (Cloud, Console, and PC) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass, Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 19
Endless Legend 2 (Game Preview) (PC) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass) – Sept. 22
Sworn (Cloud, PC, and Xbox Series X) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass) – Sept. 23
Peppa Pig: World Adventures (Cloud, PC, and Xbox Series X) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass, Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 25
Visions of Mana (Cloud, PC, and Xbox Series X) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass, Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 25
Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light (Cloud, Console, and PC) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass, Game Pass Standard) – Sept. 30
Sopa – Tale of the Stolen Potato (Cloud, Console, and PC) (Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass) – Oct. 7
This new wave of Game Pass additions rounds out the month's titles, headlined by a little ol' game named Hollow Knight: Silksong.
Xbox
News
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
What dragons would Mason Thames and Nico Parker have IRL?
4 days ago
PlayStation's first generation embraced the weird
2 days ago
Lego Voyagers is true to the Lego spirit — perhaps to a fault
4 days ago
Link and Zelda aren't dating, you weirdos
More from our brands
Best Single-Player Games On Xbox Game Pass (January 2025)
The Best Multiplayer Games on Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
Every Major Video Game Release Coming Soon For PC
Best Games On PC Game Pass (May 2025)
Hades 2 Release Date is Now Official, But There's a Catch
Hades 2 Will Leave Early Access And Be Exclusively Available On PC And Switch 2 September 25
The Best Games On Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
Most Popular
As Steal A Brainrot takes over Fortnite, fans worry about the platform's future
Steam, Discord, and Twitch execs called to testify before Congress over 'radicalization' of users
Aztec Batman stretches the limits of the Dark Knight past his breaking point
James Gunn says Green Lantern could beat Superman in a DCU showdown
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
Geralt's 'blood-soaked' new adventure revealed in The Witcher: Blood Stone first look
See More
Trending Now
Strange Horticulture's sequel turns antiquing into puzzle gold
Silksong broke me — then it got good
Andor's Alex Lawther was shocked to hear his Star Wars manifesto went viral
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.