The 20 best horror movies on Amazon Prime Video, ranked by scariness
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
There's equal laughs and scares as we rank 20 titles on the streamer from least to most scary
The 20 best horror movies on Amazon Prime Video
By
Isaac Rouse
Published 5 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your Polygon account
Spooky season is upon us, and if you’re a true horror fan, you’ve probably been in full scare mode since Sept 1. That means spending most nights on the couch enjoying scary movies — ideally with a big bowl of popcorn or candy — but with so many days to go before Halloween, you might need some help finding films to watch. Netflix may dominate the streaming market, while Shudder is the go-to platform for hardcore horror fans, but Prime Video has quietly become a treasure trove for horror lovers. Amazon’s streaming service offers everything from campy classics and chilling remakes to modern masterpieces and twisted indie gems. So, whether you crave gut-wrenching scares or just enjoy the spooky vibes of Halloween, these 20 must-watch horror movies have something for every type of thrill seeker (presented below in least to most scary order).
20
Tucker & Dale vs Evil (2010)
Image: Magnolia Home Entertainment
Two well-meaning hillbillies head to their rundown cabin for a relaxing getaway, only to be mistaken for murderous backwoods killers by a group of college students. This is one of the funniest horror comedies out there and surprisingly wholesome, too, not unlike Shaun of the Dead. Except, instead of an ode to the zombie subgenre, it’s an ode to slashers, specifically ones set in the woods.
19
The Return of the Living Dead (1985)
The Return of the Living Dead is one of the most campy zombie movies to ever exist, and made the undead eating brains trope into an official thing with its introduction of Tarman. In The Return of the Living Dead, a chemical accident at a medical supply warehouse reanimates the dead, unleashing a horde of brain-hungry zombies on a small town. A group of misfit survivors must navigate the chaos while discovering that these undead are nearly impossible to kill, turning their fight for survival into darkly comedic chaos.
18
Death Becomes Her (1992)
Two rival women, Madeline (Meryl Streep) and Helen (Goldie Hawn), are trapped in an endless battle of vanity and revenge until one discovers a mysterious elixir that grants eternal youth and immortality. It’s a darkly comedic film from genius director Robert Zemeckis, with incredible cinematography and great character work from Streep and Bruce Willis, who plays the meek man tangled in the web of these two women. Be warned: Death Becomes Her features body horror that may leave you squeamish between laughs.
17
Stir of Echoes (1999)
After being hypnotized at a party, a man (Kevin Bacon) begins experiencing terrifying visions of a murdered girl (Jennifer Morrison). As the visions intensify, he’s driven to uncover the truth behind her death, revealing dark secrets hidden within his community. It’s one of those films that feel like it could’ve been written by Stephen King, but it wasn’t. It’s actually based on a 1958 novel of the same name, and King has quoted author Richard Matheson as being his biggest influence, so it’s not hard to see the comparisons.
16
Old (2021)
Image: Universal Pictures
Another overlooked gem from the divisive M. Night Shyamalan is Old, where people get stranded on a beach where time moves fast, causing everyone to age rapidly within hours. As their lives slip away, the group desperately searches for a way to escape before nature claims them. It’s one of those classic Shyamalan flicks with a terrific premise and an even rarer payoff to the whole ordeal. It is also one of Aaron Pierce’s first Hollywood roles, playing Mid-Sized Sedan, one of the best character names of all time.
15
The Craft (1996)
A new student at a Los Angeles high school falls in with three outcast girls who practice witchcraft, forming a powerful coven. As they grow stronger and begin using magic for personal gain, their bond unravels into betrayal and dangerous consequences. It’s a nostalgic coming-of-age tale with timeless performances from Fairuza Balk and Robin Tunney that has far more staying power than its horrific 2020 sequel, The Craft: Legacy.
14
When A Stranger Calls (1979)
A babysitter who is terrorized by a series of mysterious phone calls, only to learn the caller is already inside the house. This film features a classic premise that has been spoofed countless times. It also boasts one of the most gripping starts to a horror movie imaginable, to the point where it sometimes struggles to follow up as the narrative unfolds. But when the slasher tropes stop, the character study of its main characters begins, ramping up tension to its conclusion.
13
Evil Dead 2 (1987)
Evil Dead 2 is the original Sam Raimi film's fun little brother. However, its humor and extreme violence went on to define the franchise more than its predecessor. The sequel follows Ash Williams' (Bruce Campbell) retreat to a remote cabin, where he accidentally unleashes demonic forces after playing a recording of the Necronomicon. It’s a requel that follows up from the original but also remakes some key events on a bigger budget. It’s a fun time and leads directly into Army of Darkness, which is equally (if not more) entertaining.
12
Sleepaway Camp (1983)
Image: American Eagle Films
The original Sleepaway Camp is one of the best slashers to watch if you want something a bit corny, but still highly disturbing. Shy teenager Angela attends a summer camp with her cousin Ricky, where a series of gruesome murders begins targeting fellow campers and staff. As the bodies stack up, a mystery begins to unfold, culminating in one of the most bizarre reveals of all time.
11
Alice Sweet Alice (1976)
Alice Sweet Alice is a hidden gem of 70s horror (the best time period of horror ever) that follows a troubled young girl named Alice (Brooke Shields in her first role) who becomes the prime suspect when her younger sister is brutally murdered during her First Communion. As more deaths occur, suspicion and paranoia bubble over until the true killer is revealed. Although it’s American-made, it has an Italian giallo vibe with its bright colors and haunting atmosphere, and an ending that stays with you for years.
What to Watch
Entertainment
Movies
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 18, 2025
Hamish Linklater describes The Boys and Gen V showrunner Eric Kripke in a normal way
6 days ago
Sylvester Stallone using AI to play an 18-year-old Rambo sounds great
6 days ago
What is a AAA game? A clever system ends the debate
Sep 18, 2025
Tencent punches back at Horizon Zero Dawn lawsuit, says game isn't that unique
More from our brands
The 55 Best Movies of All Time, Ranked
Best New Movies To Watch On Streaming Right Now
The 24 Best Hidden Gem Movies on Netflix Right Now
The 55 Saddest Movies That Will Break Your Heart
Looking for Something Not So Jolly To Watch? Here Are the 10 Best Horror Movies on Streaming
50 Best New Movies on Streaming to Watch Right Now
The 20 Scariest Horror Movies of All Time, Ranked
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
0:38
How did Sydney Chandler learn to speak Xenomorph?
Final Fantasy Tactics: The Ivalice Chronicles does justice to a cult classic
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.