MSI’s 27-inch 240 Hz OLED QHD gaming monitor drops to its lowest price of $499 | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Monitors
Gaming Monitors
MSI’s 27-inch 240 Hz OLED QHD gaming monitor drops to its lowest price of $499
Deals
By
Kunal Khullar
published
20 September 2025
Limited-time discount on MSI’s premium QD-OLED gaming monitor
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: MSI)
QD-OLED monitors offer excellent visuals with deep blacks and vibrant colors, making them one of the best display upgrades for your gaming setup. One such recommended monitor comes from MSI, specifically the MAG 271QPX QD-OLED E2, which is currently available at a discounted price at Newegg.The 27-inch gaming monitor, originally launched at $699, is currently available for $549 during Newegg’s ongoing Shell Shocker sale. For a limited time, you can avail an extra $50 off by applying the promo code GH8P23, bringing the final price down to $499.
Check out this deal on Newegg
Save 29% ($200)MSI MAG 271QPX QD-OLED E2: was $699 now $499 at NeweggThe MSI MAG 271QPX QD-OLED E2 is a 27-inch gaming monitor that offers stunning visuals and high-end performance. It features MSI’s third-generation QD-OLED panel, delivering true blacks, vibrant colors, and up to 99% DCI-P3 coverage for both gaming and creative tasks. With a 2560x1440 resolution, 240 Hz refresh rate, and an ultra-fast 0.03 ms response time, it ensures smooth, responsive gameplay with minimal motion blur.Read more▼View Deal
The MSI MAG 271QPX QD-OLED E2 features a third-generation QD-OLED panel, which, according to the company, has been factory pre-calibrated to achieve a delta-E ≤ 2 and an expanded RGB color range of 10-bit. With a resolution of 2560x1440, the monitor provides a refresh rate of up to 240 Hz, paired with a 0.03 ms (GtG) response time, for a sharp and responsive visual experience.MSI also notes that the monitor is VESA certified for ClearMR 13000 for reduced motion blur and DisplayHDR True Black 400, which ensures high contrast and deep blacks. The panel also supports up to 99% of the DCI-P3 color gamut, making it suitable for creative tasks.
In terms of connectivity, the MSI MAG 271QPX QD-OLED E2 features a DisplayPort (1.4a), two HDMI 2.1 ports, a USB 2.0 Type-C port with support for DisplayPort Alt Mode and 15W power delivery, and a 3.5mm headphone jack.Other notable features include a specialized Graphene film for improved thermal conductivity and a customized heatsink that enables the monitor to operate without an active cooling fan. To prevent OLED burn-in, MSI’s OLED Care 2.0 offers a range of screen protection optimization mechanisms, in addition to features such as Multi-Logo Detection, Taskbar Detection, and Boundary Detection. The monitor also comes with a three-year burn-in warranty, offering additional peace of mind for consumers.
If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals, Gaming Monitor Deals, Graphics Card Deals, or CPU Deals pages.
Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
MSI
See all comments (0)
Kunal KhullarSocial Links NavigationNews ContributorKunal Khullar is a contributing writer at Tom’s Hardware.
He is a long time technology journalist and reviewer specializing in PC components and peripherals, and welcomes any and every question around building a PC.
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.