I wore the viral $2,000 exoskeleton that supercharges your body, and it's legit | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Yard & Outdoors
I wore the viral $2,000 exoskeleton that supercharges your body, and it's legit
I wasn't prepared for the immediate benefits of wearing it.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 1:15 a.m. PT
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysThe Ultra X offers 1000 watts of power, which is the most for a Hypershell exoskeleton.It is made for people with an active lifestyle.The Hypershell is now available to purchase for $1,999.This year, IFA 2025 was mostly about smart home innovations, but I also got a refreshingly new demo at the Berlin tradeshow that hasn't left my mind since I returned home. I wore the Hypershell X Ultra exoskeleton on the ground to test its capabilities. I wasn't prepared for what to expect or for how it would impact my walking abilities, but I was curious to know how it would feel to have my legs powered by an external force. Also: Philips Hue Bridge Pro just made it easy to add motion sensing to your old smart lightsTo test the device and appease my curiosity, I put on the Hypershell X Ultra and went around the showfloor walking for the next six hours. Here's what happened next.Setting up the Hypershell X Ultra
Hypershell X Ultra exoskeleton side-view Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETWearing the Hypershell X Ultra requires fiddling with straps and adjusting the fit through a belt, which is really hard to move. I had a prototype unit for a demo, and Hypershell says they are working on making it easier for consumers to adjust the belt size. Once done, it stayed in place (with minor strap adjustments every few hours) for my workday. Also: 7 most exciting tech accessories from IFA 2025 (and that you can actually buy)The X Ultra exoskeleton weighs 2kg (battery included). I was skeptical about being bothered by the battery's weight, but it didn't trouble me at all. I was comfortable wearing it for the next six hours. Hypershell has packed its flagship offering with over a dozen sensors and two M-One Ultra Motors to generate 1000 watts of power. For reference, this is more than any other Hypershell exoskeleton. The base $900 Hypershell X Go offers 400W of power, while the $1,200 X Pro gets you to 800W. The increased power output is claimed to deliver up to a 20% reduction in physical exertion when walking, a 39% reduction in physical exertion when cycling, and a 63% increase in hip flexor endurance.
Hypershell X Ultra's battery rests on your back Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETI listened to these numbers as I was strapped on, and they didn't make much sense to me initially. But once I started walking, I could feel my legs being powered by an external force. All I had to do was perform the action of walking, that is, raise one foot at a time. The X Ultra provided an extra bounce to save me effort and complete the task, making walking easier.You can adjust the intensity through a physical button on the side-mounted control panel or from the app. The latter is set up during the initial sizing process and pairing of the machine to your phone. In addition to controlling your exoskeleton, you can use the app to check battery life, change modes, etc. The more you increase the intensity, the more dramatic it feels to have an external force power your legs. Also: Amazfit just got the one Garmin feature I use every day - and now I'm conflictedHypershell offers two modes: Eco (regular mode; green dots on the control panel) and Hyper (more powerful; red dots on the control panel). The former is ideal for most situations, but if you need extra power, turn to Hyper, which supercharges your legs. My thighs got extra bounce, and it felt as if I was just tapping the ground instead of resting my feet in between steps.
Hypershell X Ultra exoskeleton's control panel rests on your right side Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETYou can change to Transparent mode (blue dots on the control panel) if you want to switch off the external force and walk in your "human" abilities. Just make sure you don't do that in the middle of walking, like I did. (It felt as if I had turned off my feet as they became heavier.) Even in Transparent mode, I didn't feel the 2kg weight on me. It was still comfortable to walk around. Also: The 9 coolest gadgets I saw at IFA Berlin 2025 (including picks you can actually buy)The company has done an excellent job with weight distribution on this product. It has also immensely improved the battery life, which is now rated to deliver 42,000 steps per battery, or 60km of walking range -- a leap from the previous generation's 17.5 km. After six hours of walking, my unit still had 70% of its charge. Why the Hypershell makes sense
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETThe Hypershell X Ultra exoskeleton is meant for people who perform a lot of outdoor activities like hiking, camping, etc. It won't help people stand or walk again after they've lost those abilities. But it can help those who have minor mobility issues. Hypershell also offers other fitness benefits with five intelligent modes. You can trigger Cycling+ with dynamic torque assist for enhanced bike performance, Descent Assist for better knee protection on downhills, Running+ for a boost while sprinting, Dune for improved stability on sandy surfaces, and Snow for assistance when walking through powder. Plus, there's a Fitness Mode to help you warm up before a run by providing external resistance. Also: I used the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they offer 2 breakthroughs to take us beyond smartphonesI couldn't test them all since I was walking on a plane surface, but the Hypershell X Ultra sounds useful for people with an active lifestyle. It is innovative and surprisingly good at what it promises to do. Just make sure you don't use it all the time because once you take it off, you'll be reminded of your human limitations without that external force.The Hypershell X Ultra costs $1,999 and is officially on sale now.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This popular audio brand is launching $1,200 'sculptural' earbuds that could shake up the market
2 Meta Ray-Bans leaks that have me truly excited for Connect (including a new Oakley model)
I tried the Apple Watch Series 11, Watch Ultra 3, and SE - what the keynote didn't tell you
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use