Best Mental Health Apps of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Wellness Mental Health
Best Mental Health Apps of 2025
Mental health apps can help boost mood and lower anxiety, among other benefits.
Our Experts
Written by
Taylor Leamey
Written by
Nasha Addarich Martínez
Article updated on September 24, 2025 at 10:47 AM PDT
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach. Expertise Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition and Supplements Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach
See full bio
Nasha Addarich Martínez Managing Editor Nasha is a Managing Editor for CNET, overseeing our sleep and wellness verticals. She is a nutrition, mental health, fitness and sleep science enthusiast. Her passion for mindful and holistic practices transcends her personal life and profoundly influences her editorial approach, as she weaves evidence-based insights with practical advice to inspire readers to lead healthier, more balanced lives. Throughout her career, she's covered various topics including financial services, technology, travel and wellness. Expertise Sleep | Mental health | Personal Care | Fitness | Nutrition | Medical | Wellness | Vitamins and Supplements | Vision Health | Longevity Credentials Sleep Science Coach Certification from The Spencer Institute.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Features
Mental health apps vary by feature, from meditation to guided sleep sessions to online therapy. Determining your goal will help you narrow down your top choice.
App credentials
Depending on your goal, you may need an app with licensed therapists or clinical research backing it up.
Price
Many of the best mental health apps operate on a subscription model. Establishing your budget will help you narrow down your options.
User reviews
Reading app reviews before you download will give you a better idea of what the app does well and any potential pain points.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Although stress is a natural part of life, sometimes it can be a lot to handle. Taking the right steps like speaking to a therapist can keep mental health concerns at bay. Other options include mental health apps. With between 10,000 and 20,000 wellness apps out there, it can be a task to find the best option. That's why we researched for you. Below, you'll find our picks for the best mental health apps you can use today to elevate your happiness. Our Picks
Best mental health app for beginners Headspace
Jump to details
$70 at Headspace
Jump to details
Best meditation mental health app Calm
Jump to details
See at Calm
Jump to details
Best app to combat negative thinking Moodfit
Jump to details
$36 at Moodfit
Jump to details
Best online therapy app Talkspace
Jump to details
See at Talkspace
Jump to details
Best mental health app to boost your mood Happify
Jump to details
See at Happify
Jump to details
Best mental health app for anxiety MindShift
Jump to details
See at MIndshift CBT
Jump to details
Best sound frequency therapy app Soaak
Jump to details
$30 at Soaak
Jump to details
Show 2 more
Table of Contents
Best Mental Health Apps of 2025
Best mental health app for beginners
Best meditation mental health app
Best app to combat negative thinking
Best online therapy app
Best mental health app to boost your mood
Best mental health app for anxiety
Best sound frequency therapy app
Best mental health apps compared
How we chose the best mental health apps
Factors to consider when choosing the best mental health app
Are mental health apps actually useful? Here's what people are saying
Emergency numbers
Read more: Best Online Therapy Services
Headspace
Photo Gallery 1/1
Headspace
Best mental health app for beginners
Headspace
Pros
Beginner-friendly with easy-to-follow guided meditations
Variety of content
In-app therapy
Cons
Subscription-based
Limited free content
If you've been interested in meditating but don't know where to begin, Headspace makes it easy. The app's simple, welcoming approach takes the pressure off, so even if you've never meditated before (or fallen out of the habit, like I did), you can ease back in without feeling overwhelmed.After months of not meditating, Headspace helped me get back into my daily routine with short, guided sessions. The app offers everything from quick breathing exercises to full meditation courses, sleep sounds and even mindfulness-based movement. One of my favorite features is Ebb, a friendly blob-like character that helps you process emotions and navigate tough moments in real time. If you're feeling overwhelmed, Ebb offers guided exercises and reflections to help you check in with yourself.Headspace offers in-app therapy, giving you access to licensed therapists for virtual sessions. This app offers a seamless way to combine meditation and mental health support. You can pay $70 up-front for a year with a 14-day free trial or $13 monthly with a 7-day free trial.  ... Show more
Get it now
$70 at Headspace
Taylor Leamey/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Taylor Leamey/CNET
Best meditation mental health app
Calm
Pros
Calm is simple to use and the exercises are easy to follow. It's one of the best mental health app for beginners.
Features of Calm include breathing exercises, sleep programs, relaxation and mindfulness techniques.
You have access to sleep stories narrated by celebrities like Harry Styles or Laura Dern.
Cons
Calm offers a free version of the app, however, it is limited. You have to pay to access the full features.
You do have to enter payment upfront when you sign up, meaning you have to remember to cancel if you decide it's not for you.
Reviews say that the app has troubles and customer service can be difficult to work with.
Calm is one of the most well-known mental health apps in the wellness space, with over 100 million downloads. We consider Calm one of the best meditation apps because of its comprehensive offerings, including breathing techniques and calming exercises.The Calm app is pretty easy to navigate and organized well. When you open the app, you are prompted to take a few deep breaths. Then you select what your main goals are so that your recommendations are tailored to your needs. You also can track statistics within the app, such as how long you have been using the app or how many sessions you've completed.While it's a free app, it's the limited version of its service. However, there is a 7-day trial that helps you decide if it's right for you. After the trial, you have to pay the premium to access the 100 guided meditations, sleep library and masterclasses, which is $14.99/month or $69.99/year. If you are ready to commit to Calm, it's good to go with the full-year option since it comes out to just under $6/month instead of the full $15. Or you can always stay with the limited free version.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Calm
Moodfit
Photo Gallery 1/1
Moodfit
Best app to combat negative thinking
Moodfit
Pros
With Moodfit, you can adapt what the app offers based on your goals. Daily reminders and exercises will keep you on track.
Moodfit has some of the best analytics available in the mental health app game.
Cons
Moodfit does not offer communication with a therapist.
The basic version of Moodfit does not include all that the app has to offer. The premium version is $8.99/month, which is a few dollars cheaper than the average cost of the best mental health apps without therapist access.
The Moodfit app has a lot to offer, and you can choose how to use this best mental health app. You can track sleep, nutrition, exercise and more during your wellness journey. Moodfit uses tools and sessions that help you assess your feelings, recognize negative thinking and change it.The Moodfit app has pretty standard navigation. The "notices" tab at the bottom is what I would consider the educational section. There is a lot of good information available, like how your thoughts influence your behavior and feelings, but you will have to take the time to actually read it. Other mental health apps have a more interactive experience with imagery, videos and readouts.Where I think Moodfit really shines is its analytics. With the easy-to-interpret charts, you can spot patterns in your mood and your activities. You also can track your mood down to the hour -- analytic views available are monthly, weekly, daily and hourly. Many apps do have analytics, but Moodfit puts a lot of intention behind helping you find patterns in your behavior and moods.  ... Show more
Get it now
$36 at Moodfit
Taylor Leamey/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Taylor Leamey/CNET
Best online therapy app
Talkspace
Pros
Talkspace offers therapy with a mental health professional. Not all of the best mental health apps offer this feature.
You can change therapists.
Access to treatment and Talkspace features 24/7.
Cons
Since it offers therapy, Talkspace is more expensive than other apps. This may put it out of reach for some.
You can use insurance to pay for Talkspace, but some users have noted customer service wait times and other insurance troubles.
Talkspace takes our top spot for the best therapy mental health app because it provides 24/7 access to a mental health professional. It's an affordable online therapy option that gives you more than just helpful guides and videos to watch. You have access to a licensed therapist wherever and whenever you need them. Talkspace is a great option for someone who is not comfortable going into an office or would rather have therapy appointments online.A 2020 study found that messaging a therapist through Talkspace reduced feelings of anxiety and depression, helping improve mental health. A different study said that using Talkspace's voice, video and text features also reduced symptoms of PTSD, or post traumatic stress disorder. Note that the researchers of the studies had connections to Talkspace.Within this mental health app, you have access to video, text and audio chat to communicate with your therapist. However, users note there is a 5-minute cap on audio messages. Talkspace is significantly more expensive than other mental health apps on the list. However, if you're looking for an app that allows you to talk to a therapist directly, it may be worth the price.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Talkspace
Happify
Photo Gallery 1/1
Happify
Best mental health app to boost your mood
Happify
Pros
Happify was developed by therapists. It's one of the most robust mental health apps on the list.
You can personalize how you use the app by selecting what your goals are.
When using Happify, you have access to a community forum or you can keep your account private.
Happify also has a digital coach feature available.
Cons
The free features available are limited. To access the digital coach and advanced features, you have to pay for a subscription.
Happify is a free mental health app that focuses entirely on your mood and helps relieve anxiety. Developed by mental health professionals, Happify's strategies are derived from cognitive behavioral therapy that helps you learn how to recognize and reorient negative thinking.Happify had the most thorough questionnaire when signing up. I was asked about relationships, employment and medical conditions to help personalize the service. As the name suggests, Happify focuses on positivity and tries to make your journey fun with engaging games. With the relaxation and mindfulness techniques Happify offers, you can boost your mood and relieve anxiety.The app has a different navigation setup than other apps. Instead of having the navigation bar at the bottom, there's a three-bar dropdown you have to tap to bring up the menu at the top left, making it just a little more difficult to find things.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Happify
MindShift
Photo Gallery 1/1
MindShift
Best mental health app for anxiety
MindShift
Pros
MindShift is a very interactive app that allows you to choose which type of anxiety you target.
It's a free app that used psychotherapy techniques.
Cons
Because it's free, you have a limited number of entries a day.
The app may have technical difficulties.
MindShift is a free mental health app specifically designed to target anxiety. Categories within the app are broken down into general worry, social anxiety, perfectionism, panic and phobias. This allows the user to personalize which type of anxiety they want to work through.As the name suggests, MindShift targets your mindset, meaning that it helps you identify what is making you anxious and helps you redirect your thinking to positivity. When you open the app, you're prompted to rate your daily anxiety score to track over time. The app is pretty easy to use and easier to navigate than other options simply because there is less available. One tool that stood out was the "thought journal" that helps you work through what you're worried about and how to overcome negative thoughts. "Coping cards" are also available to help you ease anxiety in the moment.MindShift is much more interactive than other apps, as it relies on you to add anxiety scores and type responses to get the best experience. Other apps are mainly reading-based. If you want the best out of MindShift, you need to interact with the app.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at MIndshift CBT
Soaak
Photo Gallery 1/1
Soaak
Best sound frequency therapy app
Soaak
Pros
It continues playing even when you go to another app. It is just slightly quieter.
There are a ton of frequency options that you can favorite
Additional features like health biometrics and gratitude journal
21-day programs available to follow
Cons
Frequencies only last a set amount of time
Sometimes, the app was slow to load
Other frequencies like hormonal, digestive and immune support are hard to quantify if they work.
If you’re looking for an app you can use daily to boost your wellness passively, you’ll like Soaak. Soaak is a clinically proven sound therapy app that offers frequency compositions for things like stress relief, mental clarity, better sleep, focus and mood boost. Sound therapy may seem hard to believe, but there is research behind sound stimulation. For example, a 2020 review found that sound therapy can disrupt agitated brain waves and move them into calmer waves.The Soaak app is easy to use, and I enjoyed how I could turn it on while doing other things. My favorite compositions to use were Energy, Sleep Well and Focus. You can listen to the sound frequencies in three forms: original, nature or music. If you’re new to sound frequency, I recommend first trying the nature or music versions. For example, the energy/high vibration frequency has rain sounds over the sound compositions. You can use the Soaak app by playing the sound frequencies or dive deeper into what the app offers with 21-day programs or custom wellness plans. However, the personalized wellness services are significantly more expensive, starting at $750.  ... Show more
Get it now
$30 at Soaak
Best mental health apps compared
App SuperlativeStandout featuresPriceHeadspace Best mental health app for beginnersGuided meditations, sleep music library, Ebb, access to licensed therapists$12.99/month or $69.99/yearTalkspace Best online therapy appAccess to a licensed therapist online. Video, text and audio chat availability.Plans start at $65/weekCalm Best meditation mental health appGuided meditations, sleep library, masterclasses, tailored recommendations, can track statistics.$14.99/month or $69.99/yearMoodfit Best app to combat negative thinkingCan track sleep, nutrition and exercise. Analytics for tracking patterns and mood.$39.99/yearHappify Best mental health app to boost your moodCognitive behavioral therapy strategies, engaging games, relaxation and mindfulness techniques.$14.99/month or $139.99/year. You also can purchase "lifetime access" for $449.99.MindShift Best mental health app for anxietyCan tailor it to the type of anxiety you have, thought journal, coping cards, anxiety scores.FreeSoaak Best sound frequency therapy appClinically proven sound therapy app, three sound frequency forms (original, nature and music), 21-day programs.$29.99/month or $359.88/year
How we chose the best mental health apps
The apps included on the best mental health app list have the best features supported by research. When selecting our picks, we examined each app's user experience, features and pricing. We also read through user reviews to tease out pain points and what people value in mental health apps. Factors to consider when choosing the best mental health app
Features: There are many mental health apps out there, all of which have specific offerings that may or may not fit your needs. When comparing the best mental health apps, pay close attention to what they offer and consider whether that meets your goal. For example, many apps specialize in relaxation, reducing anxiety and depression, establishing coping skills, and addiction.App credentials: Not all apps are backed by clinical research or insights, nor do they all have licensed therapists available through them. Depending on your goal, this could be an essential determinant of your decision.Price: There are mental health apps for every budget. Robust apps with therapists, like Talkspace, cost around $69/week. However, self-guided apps tend to be more affordable, though they offer less. Determining your budget will help you narrow your options and find the best app for your needs.User reviews: The best way to get a feel for a mental health app before you sign up is to read user reviews. They'll help you gauge people's satisfaction with the app, give insights into any pain points to watch for and point out favorite features to check out. Are mental health apps actually useful? Here's what people are saying
From our research, we've found that experts are split on the effectiveness of mental health apps. Some studies have not found "convincing evidence," while other research suggests that mental health apps have the potential to manage and improve symptoms of select disorders. But what do users have to say?A qualitative study of reviews for mood-tracking apps -- a subset of mental health apps -- found that such apps positively impact users' mental health. A recent Reddit thread even had positive mentions for Finch, an app that rewards self-care in the form of items and the growth of a virtual pet, leading to improved well-being for people. It reinforces that when applied consistently, mental health apps can be useful. Emergency numbers
If you or someone you know requires immediate medical attention in the United States, call 911. If you or someone you know is in suicidal crisis or emotional distress in the US, call or text the Suicide & Crisis Lifeline at 988. The 988 Lifeline Chat is also available.To use the Crisis Text Line, text HOME to 741741.For LGBTQ+ youth in need of crisis support, you can contact The Trevor Project's crisis counselors from anywhere in the US via text, chat or phone using the resources here.For those facing mental and/or substance use disorders, you can contact the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration at 1-800-662-HELP (4357) for referrals to local treatment facilities, support groups and community-based organizations.
Mental health app FAQs
What are mental health apps?
Who doesn't want therapy from the comfort of home? Mental health apps are tools you can use to improve your well-being. While not all offer online therapy, they're simple to use and make managing your mental health easy. Each app will vary in what it targets. For example, Calm specializes in relaxation and breathing. Moodfit focuses on tracking your mood and finding patterns.Mental health apps are not intended to diagnose conditions or be a replacement for therapy. Instead, they are a great tool to use for continued support daily. They offer encouragement, education and helpful activities you can use to improve several areas of your mental health.Read more: Tips to Find the Right Therapist For You
Show more
Are mental health apps effective?
Experts are split on the effectiveness of mental health apps. Some studies have not found "convincing evidence" that apps greatly improve outcomes related to disorders like anxiety, depression or drinking. However, other research has suggested that mental health apps have potential in managing and improving symptoms of select disorders.The research on the effectiveness of long-term treatment with apps is young. Most experts agree that they are a great tool to support your mental health, especially when you use them in addition to other treatment options. They are not intended to diagnose conditions and should be viewed primarily as a complement to traditional treatment options.
Show more
What are the benefits of mental health apps?
Mental health apps bring resources to those who otherwise may not have had access to them, whether because of financial standing or regional location. And while they are not a true replacement for therapy, mental health apps are a great way to self-regulate and be mindful of how you're feeling.Convenience: You can track your mood, talk to a counselor or read about mental health topics from anywhere.Price: Mental health apps are significantly more affordable than traditional therapy. Many are available for under $20/month.Consistency: You want to be as consistent as possible during your wellness journey. With push notifications and props to check in, mental health apps ensure that you are being mindful of patterns in your behaviors or moods and how to meet your goals.24/7 access: With a mental health app, you can access resources whenever you need them. While some of the counselors may not reply immediately, you have access to the app's other features 24/7.They can help: Wellness apps can help you achieve your goals, whatever they are. For example, they can help you recognize patterns in your mood or improve your coping skills.
Show more
Will mental health apps be the end of therapy?
Mental health apps are great tools that supplement your experience. However, it's unlikely they would ever replace traditional therapy, even the options that offer virtual therapy. Mental health apps have limitations in crises, and there are questions about effectiveness when used alone. Mental health apps aren't the best option for everyone. While the apps are typically user-friendly, some people still prefer to meet in person and have their therapists' undivided attention. It's all a matter of preference.Read more: What Is Cognitive Behavioral Therapy?
Show more
Do mental health apps share your data?
With mental health apps, you can't assume that everything is protected under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. Mental health apps fall in a gray area. HIPAA only protects information collected by "covered entities," including healthcare providers and insurance companies. Many of the best mental health apps on the market operate without connection to covered entities, meaning your information isn't completely private.HIPAA applies to conversations with your therapist on an app. So you don't need to worry about what you disclose in those sessions. However, the apps' additional features — guided meditations, CBT exercises and mood logs — are not always kept confidential. Neither is the fact that you use a mental health app. The data you give the apps outside of therapy sessions can be sold for targeted advertising. And it's not just Facebook; your information can be shared with public health and academics for research.Privacy will vary by platform. Make sure you read the privacy policy of each app to fully understand your protection.
Show more
Should you use a mental health app?
For many people, apps are an important tool to guide their wellness journey. While they are not a replacement for therapy, mental health apps are a great way to check in on yourself. My advice is that mental health apps are what you put into them. Many of the free ones offer helpful, educational content. But you need to take the time to read it. Others allow you to work through stressors with open-ended answer boxes. But you have to interact with the app to truly benefit from it.A wellness app won't give the client's relationship with a counselor that traditional talk therapy offers. And for some, that's not something they are willing to give up. But if therapy is currently out of your reach, especially due to cost, then mental health apps may be a good option. You won't get the highly personalized experience you could get with another person, but you can still learn healthy habits and skills.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer
Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach.
Read full bio
Also written by
Nasha Addarich Martínez Managing Editor
Other Wellness Guides
Personal Care
Best Places to Buy Glasses Online
Best Places to Buy Contacts Online
Best Prescription Sunglasses
Best Place to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses
Best Blue Light Blocking Glasses
Best Electric Toothbrush
Best Invisible Braces
Best Sunscreen
Sleep
Best Mattresses
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Adjustable Mattress
Purple Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Pillow
Best Sheets
Fitness
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Massage Gun
Theragun Review
Nutrition
Best Meal Kit Delivery Service
Best Healthy Meal Delivery Service
Best Cheap Meal Delivery Service
Best Plant-Based Meal Delivery Service
Best Keto Meal Delivery
Medical and Mental Health
Best DNA Test
Ancestry vs 23 and Me
Best Continuous Glucose Monitors
Best Blood Pressure Monitor
Best Prescription Delivery Services
Best Portable Humidifiers
Best Mental Health Apps
Best Teas for Stress and Anxiety
Best Fidget Toys for Anxiety
Best Online Therapy
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.