CNET Survey: 47% of Americans Use VPNs for Privacy. That Number Could Rise as State Internet Bans Increase - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET Money
The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners. Review CNET's ethics statement.
TechServices & Software VPN
CNET Survey: 47% of Americans Use VPNs for Privacy. That Number Could Rise as State Internet Bans Increase
As more bans on internet content appear in the US, we reached out to users to see why and how they're adopting VPNs for a privacy fix.
Dashia Milden Editor Dashia is the consumer insights editor for CNET. She specializes in data-driven analysis and news at the intersection of tech, personal finance and consumer sentiment. Dashia investigates economic shifts and everyday challenges to help readers make well-informed decisions, and she covers a range of topics, including technology, security, energy and money. Dashia graduated from the University of South Carolina with a bachelor's degree in journalism. She loves baking, teaching spinning and spending time with her family.
See full bio
Dashia Milden
Sept. 19, 2025
3:00 a.m. PT 8 min read
Getty Image/Zooey Liao/CNETAmericans are turning to virtual private networks for online privacy and protection, and a potential wide-reaching ban on online adult content in Michigan might further increase interest in and demand for VPNs in the US. An exclusive CNET survey found that 43% of US adults use VPNs, and nearly half do so to safeguard their online activity and IP address. Beyond privacy concerns, VPNs are also gaining popularity for other reasons, including saving money and accessing banned content. Given how much we do online, Neal O'Farrell, a cybersecurity expert with over 40 years of experience and founder of Think Security First, believes we all should be using VPNs -- especially if you're worried about someone tracking your web surfing habits. "Instead of rolling the dice and hoping that no one's snooping, just don't take the chance," said O'Farrell. Although most Americans are not yet using a VPN, O'Farrell suspects that usage will increase as privacy concerns grow. VPNs are legal in most countries. However, several countries ban or restrict VPN usage, and using one could lead to legal consequences. Here's what CNET's survey uncovered about why and how people use VPNs. If you're interested in trying a VPN, I've compiled tips from online security experts.
Key takeaways
Privacy: Over half of US adults who have used a VPN (52%) use one to protect their IP address when using the internet. Mobile use: 51% of those who use a VPN do so on their phone, followed by 50% who use a VPN on their computer or tablet.By generation: VPNs are used most by younger generations -- 50% of Gen Z and millennials have used one this year.  Saving money: 23% of US adults use a VPN to save money, primarily on streaming services costs.Accessing banned apps: Since Jan. 1, 2024, 17% of US adults have tried to access a banned website or app in their area. Since the start of 2025, 50% of Gen Zers and 50% of millennials have used a VPN to attempt to access a restricted app or site.
Who's using VPNs?CNET found that 43% of US adults use a VPN, a number O'Farrell expects to rise as people become more worried about their data being tracked. Here's how that number breaks down: Men tend to use a VPN more than women. Half of the men surveyed have used or currently use a VPN, compared with 36% of women. Younger generations tend to use VPNs more, with 50% of both Gen Zers and millennials reporting they use a VPN. Once people try a VPN, they seem to stick to it; 10% say they've used or tried it for one to two years, while 19% say they've used it for over two years. Here's a closer look:
More people are protecting their phones with VPNs In the past VPNs have been commonly used on laptops and tablets, especially for work or to stream sports. However, 51% of US adults now use VPNs on their phones. followed by 50% who use them on their personal computer, laptop or tablet.  O'Farrell thinks using a VPN for mobile phone usage is wise. "We forget that we transact and conduct so many sensitive discussions and transactions on our phones," said O'Farrell. "Threats are everywhere, and if you're using your phone as a daily tool, you need to be protecting that."
If you're considering a VPN for your phone, you don't need to look specifically for a mobile VPN."The best VPNs seamlessly switch between Wi-Fi and mobile networks, and in my testing, the major VPNs all worked smoothly on phones and computers," said Moe Long, a CNET senior security editor. "Most VPNs support Android, iOS and iPadOS."Why are people using VPNs?Most US adults turn to a VPN for its primary function -- to protect their IP address. The second leading reason is to keep their online activity private. Other reasons range from streaming video games to accessing restricted content and apps.
We asked experts to weigh in on the top reasons people are using VPNs, and here's what we learned.  Privacy  Nearly half (47%) of US adults use VPNs to keep their online activity private.  A VPN routes your online traffic through a server in another location, preventing apps and websites from viewing your IP address by masking it with your VPN server's IP address. This protects your actual IP address, and hides your online traffic from your internet service provider. However, there are limits to what a VPN protects. It can't secure your payment information, cookies and account logins. If you use public Wi-Fi, such as at a coffee shop or airport, O'Farrell recommends connecting to a VPN. CNET's technology writer, Attila Tomaschek, added that a quality VPN is usually fast enough for regular internet activities, even on public Wi-Fi.
Accessing banned content Accessing content that's banned in your area is another common reason people are using VPNs, according to CNET's findings.  Users might connect to a VPN to watch regionally locked sports games or a show only offered in another country. Others might have even tried a VPN to access TikTok during the hours it was down in January.  Since Jan. 1, 2024, 17% of US adults have tried accessing a banned app or website in their area, such as TikTok. Of those using a VPN to access illegal or banned apps, 45% started using a VPN in the past year. "The threat of a TikTok ban in the US caused a surge in VPN interest because many folks were seeking ways to bypass restricted access," said Long. "But in my testing, using a VPN to unblock TikTok wasn't a viable solution. Still, this illustrates how VPNs are becoming more mainstream -- we've also witnessed this trend with more folks turning to VPNs for streaming region-restricted content, like loading foreign Netflix libraries or watching BBC iPlayer outside of the UK."You can't always use a VPN to access banned apps, however. For example, Long couldn't access TikTok through a VPN during the app's temporary ban last month. Some websites and apps have firewalls and VPN detection features that can block you. Content can also be restricted to certain regions due to licensing agreements and copyright restrictions, Tomaschek said.  It's also important to understand if accessing content is legal in your country. For example, accessing a TV show that's regionally blocked is generally not illegal as long as VPN usage is legal in your country. However, there are other ramifications you can face. Your account could be suspended if accessing blocked content violates your streaming service's user agreement.  You should never use a VPN to access illegal content or violate VPN laws in your country. If you do, you could face fines or imprisonment.  "If it is banned in a specific country, the authorities in that country will have a right to access who's accessing it," O'Farrell said. VPNs are banned or restricted in the below countries: Belarus ChinaIranOmanRussiaTurkmenistanUnited Arab Emirates Saving money on streaming Using a VPN to alter your server's location can help you lock in lower prices on items or services, which may be cheaper in other states, regions or countries. We found that 19% of US adults who use VPNs do so to save on streaming service costs, including TV, sports, and music. This breaks down to 12% who use VPNs to save on streaming TV, 9% to save money on streaming sports and 8% on streaming music, with some respondents using VPNS to save on more than one streaming service.For example, Long tested using a VPN to save money on streaming content and could save $6 on renting a movie by using a VPN to change his location to the UK.If you want to try using a VPN to save on streaming costs, check the service's terms and conditions for any language that prohibits the use of VPNs. VPNs can also help you save money on travel, but only 9% of VPN users use one to save on plane tickets, hotels, rental cars and other travel expenses. When using a VPN to get the best price on travel, don't forget to factor in exchange rates and international transaction fees.
Interested in trying a VPN? CNET experts have been testing VPNs for over a decade and have done hands-on testing to help you find the right one. If you're considering trying a VPN, here's what CNET experts say to look for.
Privacy standards  CNET editors recommend looking for a VPN with AES 256-bit encryption to hide sensitive information, and a no-logging policy to prevent any of your online activity from being saved by your VPN provider. Look for other privacy features -- like DNS leak protection and a kill switch. Tomaschek recommends ExpressVPN, NordVPN and Proton VPN as quality providers.  Watch out: VPNs aren't a security measure to shield you from identity theft or scams. Yes, you'll shield your location, but that doesn't stop your device from getting a virus or malware. Tomaschek recommends both a VPN and antivirus software since they serve different purposes. Some VPNs now offer identity theft protection like ExpressVPN's Identity Defender and NordVPN's NordProtect.
Internet speed  Many VPNs slow your internet speed by 50% or more, but a fast VPN will only slow your speed by 25% or less. If you're using a VPN to stream or play video games, you'll want to find one with low-speed loss. Tomascheck recommends NordVPN.
Servers and locations As you narrow down your VPN choice, pay attention to the number of servers and locations the VPN offers. The more servers and locations it has, the more options you'll have for bypassing geo-restrictions and accessing a wider variety of content from different countries. More importantly, you'll have other options if a server is down in one location.
VPN support  If you plan to use your VPN on multiple devices, make sure your VPN can handle those simultaneously. Some VPNs allow eight to 10 devices at once, while others don't have a limit. It's also important to make sure your VPN supports your operating system. Some VPNs may be better compatible with Windows and MacOS, while mobile VPNs may work better on iOS and Android. Your device may also play a part in your VPN's performance. We recommend looking at CNET's best VPNs to help you narrow down your search.
Methodology All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from YouGov Plc. The total sample size was 2,429 adults, of whom 1,057 have ever used a VPN. Fieldwork was undertaken from Feb. 3-5, 2025. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all US adults (aged 18 or over).
About the Author
Dashia Milden Editor Dashia Milden Editor
Dashia is the consumer insights editor for CNET. She specializes in data-driven analysis and news at the intersection of tech, personal finance and consumer sentiment. Dashia investigates economic shifts and everyday challenges to help readers make well-informed decisions, and she covers a range of topics, including technology, security, energy and money. Dashia graduated from the University of South Carolina with a bachelor's degree in journalism. She loves baking, teaching spinning and spending time with her family.
Read full bio
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.