Deploying agentic AI? You'll probably do business with these 3 companies | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Deploying agentic AI? You'll probably do business with these 3 companies
How three major players position themselves to define enterprise productivity tools, according to Research And Markets.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 10:04 a.m. PT
Eoneren/E+ via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysMicrosoft, Nvidia, and Google top the agentic AI market.Agentic AI automates problem-solving in real time. The tech will significantly impact enterprise productivity.Research And Markets' 2025 360 Quadrant analysis aims to provide insights into the global agentic AI market. The study, published Thursday, includes the market's key players, technological advancements, product innovations, and emerging trends -- and right now, Microsoft's Copilot enterprise solutions, Nvidia's GPUs, and Google's Gemini-powered productivity tools lead the industry.Also: OpenAI has new agentic coding partner for you now: GPT-5-CodexThe analysis ranked companies based on annual revenue, geographic presence, growth strategies, investments, and sales strategies. It asserts that the big three -- Microsoft, Nvidia, and Google -- invest in research and development, form strategic partnerships, engage in collaborative initiatives to spark innovation, and expand their global footprint, all to maintain a competitive advantage.Agentic AI refers to an AI system that can complete specific tasks with little to no supervision. The system consists of machine learning models that emulate real-time human decision-making to solve problems. According to the 360 Quadrant, this type of AI system will heavily impact enterprise operations by using automation to solve problems without much human oversight.MicrosoftMicrosoft's Copilot takes first place in the 360 Quadrant analysis, thanks to Copilot's presence across the company's enterprise solutions, including Microsoft 365, Azure, and GitHub. According to the report, Copilot integration within these services allows Microsoft's agentic AI to complete embedded tasks like drafting emails and updating CRM fields.Also: Copilot's new File Explorer tricks are serious OneDrive time-savers - how to try themTwo of Microsoft's great strengths are that it uses Azure OpenAI, a generative AI service that integrates OpenAI models into its Azure cloud platform, and Semantic Kernel, a development kit used to incorporate large language models into applications, according to the analysis.The 360 Quadrant asserts that Copilot's use for enterprise productivity and Azure OpenAI and Semantic Kernel's orchestration capabilities position Copilot as crucial to enterprise productivity and autonomy. Also: College students can get Microsoft Copilot free for a year - here's howAccording to the analysis, Microsoft's agentic AI market share ranges from 8% to 10%.NvidiaNvidia's position in the agentic AI market is defined by its GPUs, the specialized hardware that trains and runs complex AI models. According to the 360 Quadrant, Nvidia attributes its 7% to 9% agentic AI market share to its hardware expertise, supporting operational innovation across industries.Also: You can get Nvidia's CUDA on three popular enterprise Linux distros now - why it mattersThe report credits Nvidia's place in the agentic AI market to its ability to capitalize on the transition to autonomous systems, and its focus on high-performance computing solidifies it.GoogleAccording to the 360 Quadrant, Google has redefined its AI strategy from offering consumer-centric AI tools to presenting enterprise-friendly solutions powered by Gemini. Gemini appears across Google's productivity tools suite, including Gmail and Google Cloud.Also: Sorry, ChatGPT - Gemini is the new top free iPhone app nowThe 360 Quadrant asserts that Google's strength within the agentic AI market is based on its AI model's real-time collaboration and native access to swaths of data resources. Google enjoys a 6% to 8% share of the agentic AI market.Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
4 ways machines will automate your business - and it's no hype, says Gartner
In 2 years, half of all service calls will be resolved by AI - survey
After coding catastrophe, Replit says its new AI agent checks its own work - here's how to try it
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use