Best Smoke Detectors for 2025, Engineer-Tested and Approved - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Home Security
Best Smoke Detectors for 2025, Engineer-Tested and Approved
Having a reliable and efficient smoke detector in your home can be a lifesaver. Here are our top five recommendations.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Article updated on September 3, 2025 at 12:00 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Power source
Does your state have hardwired requirements? Do you want wireless models for extra rooms?
Battery backups
Does your state require battery backups? How many years do they need to ask?
Battery alerts
Does the detector use battery chirps? Does it have an easy hush button?
Sensor types
What sensors does the detector have? Does it offer dual sensors for different fire situations?
Smart home support
Does the detector work via app? Is it compatible with smart home platforms like Alexa or Google Home?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Properly installed smoke detectors are often the first line of defense against a house fire, keeping the homeowner informed and ready to take action. However, it's important that the smoke detector you've bought is efficient and reliable. To find the best options, I simulated house fire smoke to test over a dozen smoke detectors and narrowed it down to five, which earned my seal of recommendation. Our Picks
Best smoke detector overall Kidde Smart Smoke Detector
Jump to details
$56 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best for Google Nest users First Alert Battery Smart Smoke & Carbon Monoxide Alarm with Nest Protect
Jump to details
$130 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smoke detector for Alexa and Ring users Kidde Ring-Enabled Smart Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detector
Jump to details
$55 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget smoke detector First Alert SA320 Dual Sensor Smoke Detector
Jump to details
$17 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smoke detector for DIY home security SimpliSafe Smoke Detector
Jump to details
$63 at Amazon
Jump to details
INDOOR SECURITY CAMERA DEALS OF THE WEEK
TP-Link Tapo C120 2K QHD Security Camera:  $24 (save $17)
Ring Indoor Cam 2nd Gen 1080p Camera With Cover (White, 2-Pack):  $100 (save $20)
Eufy Security Solo IndoorCam P24 2K Indoor Camera:  $40 (save $15)
Arlo Essential Indoor 2K Security Camera (2nd Generation):  $30 (save $50)
TP-Link Tapo C110P4 2K Security Camera (4-Pack):  $46 (save $15) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Smoke Detectors for 2025, Engineer-Tested and Approved
What is the best smoke detector?
Best smoke detectors of 2025
Best smoke detector overall
Best for Google Nest users
Best smoke detector for Alexa and Ring users
Best budget smoke detector
Best smoke detector for DIY home security
How I test smoke alarms and smoke detectors
Other smoke detectors we've tested
Important factors when choosing a smoke detector
What we updated
Smoke detector FAQ
What is the best smoke detector?
Kidde's latest smoke detectors combine common sense and extra-smart features. KiddeAfter days of testing, the best smoke detector in 2025 proved to be Kidde smart smoke detector. It builds on the excellent performance of previous Kidde devices while adding new smart features -- but it doesn’t force you to use the app if you’d rather not. I’ve also picked the best detectors for Nest users, Ring fans, home security setups and more -- so be sure to check out the full list.Best smoke detectors of 2025
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best smoke detector overall
Kidde Smart Smoke Detector
Pros
Kidde alerts were very fast in our testing
Well-designed sensor made to avoid false alerts like cooking smoke
Voice alarms plus siren
Wi-Fi options available but not required
Alexa and Google Home support
Cons
No carbon monoxide detection, which requires spending a lot more
Throughout our testing we found Kidde smoke detectors to perform especially well when it comes to fast smoke detection. This model has Kidde's excellent photoelectric sensor, designed to ignore fake fire signs like a bit of smoke from cooking. It's also pretty affordable at $55 with sales bringing that price much lower.We also chose this model as our top choice because it offers helpful features and the choice to use app alerts, but not a requirement. You can stick with LED indicators, voice alarms and the 85-decibel alarm if you want to. Or you can enable Wi-Fi features for app alerts for smoke, fire or carbon monoxide, as well as connecting to platforms and voice assistants like Alexa, Google Home or the Kidde app. Finally, we chose the hardwired version of this model because so many states required hardwired smoke alarms in certain places, so it's an easy way to meet fire standards. But note this model doesn't offer carbon monoxide detection.
... Show more
Get it now
$56 at Amazon
$83 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Power source
Hardwired, battery backupAlarm sound
85 decibel plus LED indicators and phone alertsTemperature rating
Up to 100°FSensor type
PhotoelectricSmart home support
Alexa, Google Home
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best for Google Nest users
First Alert Battery Smart Smoke & Carbon Monoxide Alarm with Nest Protect
Pros
Full Google Nest integration
Dual sensors for smoke and carbon monoxide
6-battery design allows for placement anywhere
A variety of app alert options
Sensors designed to reduce false alarms
Cons
A battery alarm may not be enough if your state requires hardwired alarms in certain areas
Expensive at well over $100
We highly approved of the Google Nest Protect detector in our testing, but there's a problem. Google has officially discontinued the Nest Protect, and while support should still continue for years, we don't feel comfortable recommending it for this specific list. However, there is an alternative: The new partnership between Nest and First Alert, leading to the newly released First Alert smoke and carbon monoxide alarm with Nest Protect. The battery detector can be placed nearly anywhere and includes full support for Google Home as well as First Alert's own app. First Alert is another company that has performed very well in our testing. This model augments those sharp sensors with voice alerts, low-battery app alerts and tech to reduce false alarms.
... Show more
Get it now
$130 at Amazon
$130 at First Alert
$130 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Power source
BatteryAlarm sound
N/ATemperature rating
N/ASensor type
Electrochemical, PhotoelectricSmart home support
Google Home, Nest Protect services
Learn more
First Alert Battery Smart Smoke & Carbon Monoxide Alarm with Nest Protect review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best smoke detector for Alexa and Ring users
Kidde Ring-Enabled Smart Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detector
Pros
Built-in Ring and Alexa compatibility
Phone alerts for smoke detection, low battery and more
End of life warning alerts
Voice alerts
Hardwired and battery models available
Cons
You won't find any Google support here
Thanks to a recent partnership
with Ring, Kidde is now also offering smart thermostats that are specifically designed to work with the Ring app. They can integrate with Ring security systems, but you don't need one to fully utilize this smart detector. And we like Ring's UI and alerts better than Kidde's app, so that's a score for usability, too.The model combines Kidde's well-scored sensors with Ring technology that supports a wide variety of alerts and real-time notifications to keep you updated no matter where you are. And there's a separate Ring plan you can add specific for professional fire response if you don't mind a subscription.Since Ring technology is included, it's no surprise that the detector works well with Alexa, too. Without the apps, you still get voice alerts. We chose the hardwired version here, but there's a battery model, too.
... Show more
Get it now
$55 at Amazon
$75 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Power source
Hardwired with battery backupAlarm sound
85 decibels plus voice alertsTemperature rating
N/ASensor type
PhotoelectricSmart home support
Alexa, Ring app
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best budget smoke detector
First Alert SA320 Dual Sensor Smoke Detector
Pros
Dual sensor
Battery and wired options
Affordable, often under $20
Cons
Battery power isn't always a possible option depending on state rules
Detection speed slightly worse than some brands like Kidde
No smart features
Ranked third in both our smoke tests, the First Alert Dual Sensor is a solid option at an affordable price. we found the silence/test button is stiffer than most other models, which can be a pain if you're trying to hush a false alarm or conduct a weekly test. But this budget option was able to detect a flaming fire in less than 23 seconds and a slow smoldering smoke in less than 34 seconds (on average), proving First Alert's capabilities. Of course, at under $20, this unit doesn't have any extra features like voice alarms, smart home integration or app support.
... Show more
Get it now
$17 at Amazon
$17 at Walmart
$17 at Lowe's
Specs & Configurations
Power source
AA BatteryAlarm sound
85 decibels Temperature rating
N/ASensor type
Photoelectric and IonizationSmart home support
N/A
Add to compare
SimpliSafe
Photo Gallery 1/1
SimpliSafe
Best smoke detector for DIY home security
SimpliSafe Smoke Detector
Pros
Integrates with DIY security system
Easy setup with wireless design and SimpliSafe app
Option for professional monitoring but not required
Great for first-time security users
Cons
No other smart home or voice assistant integrations
If you aren't a fan of Ring and are more interested in DIY security systems that don't require a subscription or high fees to get good results, we chose this SimpliSafe smoke detector specifically for those who want to handle everything on their own. This wireless, battery-powered detector is part of the SimpliSafe app, giving you one place to get both security and fire alerts. You can upgrade to connect it to professional monitoring if you want to pay for it, but it's not necessary. If you want to get a home security system that includes smoke detection at an affordable price, this is what we recommend starting with.
... Show more
Get it now
$63 at Amazon
$70 at SimpliSafe
Specs & Configurations
Power source
BAtteryAlarm sound
N/ATemperature rating
N/ASensor Type
PhotoelectricSmart home support
SimpliSafe app only
Add to compareHow I test smoke alarms and smoke detectors
Our smoke detection test chamber lets us test how quickly each model raises an alarm when smoke enters the environment. Gianmarco Chumbe/CNETWhen it comes to detecting smoke, time is of the essence. That is why we designed a test that simulates a real-life emergency.  The first thing to know is that there are two main types of fires that these products are designed for: smoldering fires and flaming fires. A smoldering (or slow-burning) fire refers to the combustion that occurs at the surface of a solid material. Smoldering fires produce large amounts of thick smoke but can't sustain a flame. Think of a cigarette slowly burning but never actually bursting into flames.  A smoldering fire can and will become a flaming fire if proper action is not taken immediately. Flaming fires are the ones we're more familiar with, and they usually arise from the ignition of any flammable material, such as a flammable substance, wood, paper, etc. These generally produce less smoke than a smoldering fire but are more destructive. In my backyard, I built a chamber that houses the smoke detector and fed to it the two different types of smoke through a chimney. I timed the quickness of the response. The faster the smoke detectors' alarm was triggered, the better.
Smoke detection testing in progress. Gianmarco Chumbe/CNETTo simulate smoke coming from a smoldering fire, I ignited 300g of charcoal and let it heat up for 10 minutes before feeding the smoke. I wanted to make sure most of the coals were ignited and that the smoke was thick enough to trigger the alarm.  Recreating a flaming fire was easy, just 30g of shredded paper did the trick. Again, I ensured a significant amount of smoke was present before feeding it through the chimney and into the chamber.  To the great discomfort of my neighbors, who had to endure smoke alarms going off randomly, and to whom I sincerely apologize, I repeated the whole process three times per smoke detector model under test and per type of smoke, totaling six test runs per smoke detector. Finally, I averaged the response times.
Other smoke detectors we've tested
Kidde's voice alert detector is a great option for people who want to stay away from apps. KiddeKidde Dual Sensor Smoke Detector PI9010: While this detector was at the height of our list for some time, sensor concerns had Kidde recall it even as the company pushed toward more high-tech products. We can't recommend this detector anymore, nor can you find it anywhere despite it's excellent responses in our tests.Kidde Firex Smoke Alarm i4618AC Ionization Sensor (Update: Out of Stock): As expected from an ionization detector, it had the best performance detecting a fast-flaming fire in just 16.9 seconds, and the second-best score detecting a slow-smoldering fire, in 28.1 seconds. As a former budget pick, we removed it form out best list because its been out of stock for some time.Kidde Smoke Alarm 20SD10-V: Although we have not tested the Kidde Smoke Alarm 20SD10-V yet, we felt it was worth mentioning as an available product because it has a strong hardwired option. Some states and new construction require your smoke detector to be hardwired along with a battery backup. This smoke alarm by Kidde not only has a hard wiring option it also stands out for its easy installation and reliable operation. The 10-year battery backup and associated warranty should be enough to meet any residential requirements. There's also an easy-access hush button in case the alarm does sound off unnecessarily. It can also connect with other compatible Kidde alarms for simultaneous alerts.Kidde Firex PI2010 Hardwired Dual Sensor Smoke Detector (Update: Out of Stock): Lowest overall performance detecting a slow-smoldering fire, taking 83 seconds. Second-lowest performance detecting a fast-flaming fire, in 27.9 seconds. The device needs to be hardwired, but it comes with a 9-volt battery as backup.  Onelink Battery Powered Smart Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detector by First Alert (Update: Out of Stock): This model looked great at first: App-controlled, useful smart features and the ability to pair up with other smart home security devices make it a strong contender for the best for smart home. It did not impress us in the smoke detection test. It had the lowest performance detecting a fast-flaming fire and the second-lowest performance detecting a slow-smoldering fire, taking almost twice as long as the Nest.
Important factors when choosing a smoke detector
A look at the interior of CNET's carbon monoxide detector. CNET/Gianmarco ChumbePower sourceBattery smoke detectors are incredibly easy to place, but there’s a problem: Local fire codes and state requirements often require hardwired smoke alarms in residential buildings, which can create insurance and remodeling headaches. I advise getting hardwired versions when possible to meet state requirements and use battery models for additional protection in other areas.Battery backupsBattery backups are another common fire code requirement, so it’s a good idea to look at your local codes to see what kind of battery backup you need. You can check your national Fire Alarm and Signaling Code here. Battery alertsMany of my picks mute battery beeps and find other ways to let you know when backup batteries are running low. It’s a nice feature, especially when backed up by an app.Sensor typesDifferent sensors specialize in different types of heat or particle detection. My top pick has a dual sensor to take advantage of both, as does Google's Spectrum sensor.Smart home supportSupport for Google Home, Alexa or other platforms may be very important for some users, and the added app support is great. This feature can be rare, but is useful for the right homeowners.Regulatory and certification standardsWhen picking a smoke detector, it is essential to look for models certified by recognized standards like UL in the US, or CE in Europe. These certifications ensure that the produce has undergone rigorous testing to meet safety and performance regulations, providing reliable protection against fire hazards.
What we updated
If your home security system supports smoke detectors, tap into this compatibility.  SimpliSafeSpring 2025: After our latest rounds of testing we did a massive overhaul of our list, replacing almost every product with new models. This allowed us to include major smoke detector developments, like the new partnerships between Kidde and Ring as well as Nest and First Alert, which herald a new era in home smoke detectors. We also added a DIY SimpliSafe detector which makes a good option for those who want to adopt a security system and a smoke detector at the same time.   Smoke detector FAQ
Are there different types of smoke detectors?
Smoke detectors use various smoke-detecting mechanisms: photoelectric sensors, ionization sensors or a combination of the two, called "dual sensors." We don't need to go too deeply into the science behind them, but it's helpful to know that the main difference between the two is their ability to detect different types of smoke. For instance, a smoke detector that has a photoelectric sensor is better at detecting slow-smoldering fires, while a smoke detector that has an ionization sensor will be better at detecting fast-flaming ones. Plenty of "combo" or "dual sensor" smoke detectors feature both mechanisms, so you don't have to worry about either eventuality.
Show more
My smoke detector goes off, but there's no smoke?
Some smoke detectors, like dual-sensors, and especially ionization detectors, are designed to sense disruptions in the circuitry of the device. The ionization sensor is inside a chamber and has two electrically charged plates that ionize air between them. When smoke particles enter the chamber, they occupy the air within the plates, blocking the flow of ions and, consequently, triggering the alarm. Debris, dust, paint, cigarette smoke, dirt and steam particles can also have the same effect. Keep that in mind if you're renovating your home or if you have your smoke detector installed near a kitchen. If you suspect your smoke detector has been contaminated with foreign particles, give it a good cleaning.
Show more
How do I clean a smoke detector?
Smoke detectors will have instructions on how to clean the device in the user's manual, but there are a couple of easy fixes you can try if you don't feel like looking for that elusive bit of paper. Grab a handheld vacuum or a vacuum that's equipped with the smallest nozzle piece. Then, simply vacuum every open spot you can find in your smoke detector. If you have an air blower, blow some air in those spots. If you're renovating your home, cover your smoke detector or remove it from the work area to prevent it from going off when no smoke is present.
Show more
My smoke detector makes a chirping noise. What's causing it?
Most smoke detectors will produce a low chirping noise, signaling their batteries are getting low or that the unit itself needs replacing. This is a common feature of most smoke detectors but occurs mostly during the night when your home's temperature drops a couple of degrees. If the chirping continues during the day, it may be a sign of something else. Refer to your smoke detector's manual for troubleshooting specific to your smoke detector model. Keep in mind that the average lifespan of a smoke detector is 10 years, so if your detector is close to that, it'd be a good idea to play it safe and replace it.
Show more
Which is better, a hardwired or battery smoke detector?
A hardwired smoke detector is generally more reliable since it’s connected directly to your home’s power supply and doesn’t rely on battery life. However, a battery-powered detector offers easier installation and works even during power outages. Both have their pros, but hardwired models are often preferred for long-term reliability.
Show more
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.