Mojtaba Seyedi on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Mojtaba Seyedi
@mojtabaseyedi
·
mojtabaseyedi.com
Direct link to the article sibling-count()
sibling-count()
The sibling-count() CSS function returns the total number of sibling elements an element has, including itself. Think of it sort of as the CSS equivalent of JavaScript’s element.parentElement.children.length.…
Jun 11, 2025
Direct link to the article sibling-index()
sibling-index()
The sibling-index() CSS function returns the position of an element among its siblings, starting from 1. It's similar to :nth-child(), but instead of using it in selectors, you can now use the index directly within CSS functions and calculations.
Jun 3, 2025
Direct link to the article :defined
web components
:defined
The :defined pseudo-class selector is part of CSS Selectors Level 4 specification allowing you to target custom elements created with the Web Components API and defined in JavaScript. Also, this selector matches any standard element built into the browser.…
Jan 28, 2025
Direct link to the article :has()
:has()
The CSS :has() pseudo-class selects elements that contain other elements that match the selector passed into its arguments. It’s often referred to as “the parent selector” because of its ability to select a parent element based on the child elements …
Oct 9, 2024
Direct link to the article grid-area
grid-area
The grid-area CSS property is a shorthand that specifies the location and the size of a grid item in a grid layout by setting the value of grid-row-start, grid-column-start, grid-row-end and grid-column-end in one declaration.
.grid-container {
display: …
Jan 27, 2025
Direct link to the article grid-row
grid-row
The grid-row CSS property is a shorthand that specifies the row grid lines where a grid item starts and ends in a grid layout, and does it in a single declaration.
.grid-container {
display: grid;
grid-template-columns: repeat(4, 1fr);
}
.grid-item:nth-child(2) …
Oct 26, 2022
Direct link to the article grid-column
grid-column
The grid-column CSS property is a shorthand that specifies the column grid lines where a grid item starts and ends in a grid layout in one declaration.
.grid-container {
display: grid;
grid-template-columns: repeat(4, 1fr);
}
.grid-item:nth-child(2) {
grid-column: 3 / …
Oct 18, 2022
Direct link to the article grid-row-end
grid-row-end
The grid-row-end CSS property is part of the CSS Grid Layout specification, used to indicate the row grid line where a grid item ends in a grid layout. This property — among other line-based placement grid properties — controls …
Oct 18, 2022
Direct link to the article grid-row-start
grid-row-start
The grid-row-start CSS property is part of the CSS Grid Layout specification, used to indicate the row grid line where a grid item starts in a grid layout. This property — among other line-based placement grid properties — controls …
Oct 18, 2022
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top