How to sync API version between stripe cli and workbench? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to sync API version between stripe cli and workbench?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
44 times
0
There's API version mismatch between stripe cli and what's in Workbench i.e.
stripe config --list
shows
api-version = '2020-08-27',
but in
Workbench -> API versions -> 2025-03-31.basil [default]
and I see no way of changing it there.
I actually want to downgrade Stripe API version in Workbench because webhook events coming in 2025-03-31.basil format and fail serialization due to the version mismatch.
And I don't want to upgrade to 2025-03-31.basil because it will break the code since based on 2020-08-27.
Any thoughts would be appreciated.
stripe-payments
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 4 hours ago
tim bitstim bits
asked 4 hours ago
tim bitstim bits
1191111 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
0
You can't downgrade your Stripe API version in your Workbench. The API version in Workbench is tied to the default API version of your Stripe Account, which is set to the latest version at the time you created your account. You have the option to upgrade it whenever a new Stripe API version is released, but there isn't an option to downgrade.
That API version you are seeing the stripe config --list does not affect the API version of the events you are receiving.
Unfortunately, stripe listen can only receive events based on your account's default API version or the latest version (using the --latest flag).
If you are using a strongly typed language, the API version set for your webhook endpoint must match the version used in the Stripe SDK that you are using. Each version of Stripe's SDK should be pinned to a specific Stripe API version (with the exception of older SDK versions). Ensuring these versions match is important for the successful deserialization of the event object.
There are a couple of options here :
Option 1 : Ensure the SDK version that you are using is pinned to either the latest Stripe API version, or pinned to the same default API version of your Stripe Account (you would want to check the SDK changelog)
Option 2 :
create a network edge (like ngrok) to the your local webhook server
create a test webhook that registers that public endpoint, and by specifying the target API version : https://docs.stripe.com/api/webhook_endpoints/create#create_webhook_endpoint-api_version.
use stripe trigger to simulate and test
Note that you can only explicitly define the latest Stripe API version or default Stripe API version of your account when creating webhook endpoints via the Dashboard. If you need to define any other Stripe API version when creating the webhook endpoint, you can only do so via the Stripe API.
Also, you cannot update the API version of an existing webhook endpoint, you would need to create a new webhook endpoint.
Option 3 : Reach out to Stripe Support to see if they are able downgrade/upgrade the default API version of your Stripe account
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
edited 2 hours ago
answered 3 hours ago
alexalex
2,94711 gold badge1616 silver badges1111 bronze badges
Comments
Add a comment
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
stripe-payments
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
The history and future of software development (part 1)
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Related
9
How to upgrade Stripe API version with webhooks
1
How to fix the error stripe: No stripe-signature header value was provided
0
Cashier 6.0 compatibility with Stripe API 15/08/2017
21
How can I test subscription renewal flows in stripe?
1
Problem with firebase stripe extention and sdk version 9
0
Updating Stripe PaymentIntent triggers no event and no webhook
0
How to pass UserId from payment api endpoint to webhook endpoint?
0
Processing Stripe Events with AWS Api Gateway vs AWS EventBridge
2
How to fix this error "undefined method `encoding' for nil:NilClassa " and get canceling subscription plan worked?
Hot Network Questions
How do I make the middle of the bill curve up?
How to crack ECC using halving
Can I salvage this drywall patch project?
From honeycombs to a cube
Find non-trivial improvement after submitting
Could our telescopes detect a type I civilisation
How does a telepathic bond work if the bondee lacks language?
What does it mean for a museum exhibit "not to have a Soviet anniversary"?
Best solution to prevent loop between tables for granular relations
Why would disembarking a few passengers delay a flight by 3 hours?
Where was the Kenya sequence in The Crown Episode 1 filmed?
rkhunter Updates -- "no updates" for several months now
Identifying a movie where a man relives the same day
How to draw the following graph in latex?
how would you formalise in first order logic the sentence "I am a liar"?
How to convert square wave to sine wave
At high pressures, is aromaticity affected?
Can the price of a gap option be negative?
Does a distant observer see the light for a longer duration due to the effect of time dilation?
How to design a circuit that outputs the binary position of the 3rd set bit from the right in an 8-bit input?
How to use ≥ 16 usbip ports from one host controller on Debian?
Separating trefoil knot on torus
What "real mistakes" exist in the Messier catalog?
Using Switch to return a value depending on the sign of a real number
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.25.34480