Trump posts about Dallas motel manager killing, blames Biden administration after suspect was not deported - CBS Texas
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk
FBI Hearing
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Texas
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
Texas Monthly
Local
Business
Eye on Politics
Politics
Consumer
Education
Tech
The I-Team
HealthWatch
Entertainment
Texas Weather
Live Radar
Closings/Cancellations
Gardening 101
Weather on Wheels
Mobile 11
Climate Connection
Where's Brittany?
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Cowboys
Rangers
Mavericks
Stars
FC Dallas
Wings
NASCAR
Golf
Tennis
College Sports
High School Sports
Station Info
CBS 11 / TXA 21
Advertise
CBS Television Jobs
Upload Your Photos
Galleries
Download the App
Watch CBS News
Local News
Trump posts about Dallas motel manager killing, blames Biden administration after suspect was not deported
By
Steven
Rosenbaum
Steven
Rosenbaum
Digital Producer, CBS Texas
Steven Rosenbaum is a digital producer for CBS Texas. A versatile journalist, Steven writes, edits and produces content for the CBS Texas digital platforms.
Read Full Bio
Steven
Rosenbaum
Updated on:
September 15, 2025 / 7:44 PM CDT
/ CBS Texas
Trump posts about killing of Dallas motel manager, blames Biden administration
Trump posts about killing of Dallas motel manager, blames Biden administration
00:39
President Trump linked the beheading of a Dallas motel manager to immigration policies, blaming the Biden administration for allowing the Cuban national accused in the killing to remain in the U.S. despite prior arrests.Chandra Nagamallaiah died last week, and Dallas police identified Yordanis Cobos-Martinez as the suspect. Cobos-Martinez is being held in the Dallas County Jail for capital murder and has an immigration hold, jail records show. Immigration and Customs Enforcement confirmed it has lodged a detainer with the Dallas County Jail for Cobos-Martinez's federal arrest and removal. In a statement, ICE said he is a Cuban national and in the U.S. illegally. In a post on his Truth Social account Sunday evening, Mr. Trump said, "I am aware of the terrible reports regarding the murder of Chandra Nagamallaiah, a well respected person in Dallas, Texas, who was brutally beheaded, in front of his wife and son, by an ILLEGAL ALIEN from Cuba who should have never been in our Country. This individual was previously arrested for terrible crimes, including child sex abuse, grand theft auto, and false imprisonment, but was released back into our Homeland under incompetent Joe Biden because Cuba did not want such an evil person in their Country."While Cobos-Martinez has an extensive arrest history, he was not convicted in every case. Court records show the child indecency case against Cobos-Martinez was dropped due to insufficient evidence, and Cobos-Martinez was acquitted of grand theft auto after a trial in California.
According to ICE, Cobos-Martinez was under a final order to be deported but Cuba would not take him back due to his criminal record. He was released from the Bluebonnet Detention Center in the final days of the Biden administration under an order of supervision, ICE said.In response to a request for comment from CBS News Texas, a former Biden administration official said, "The Order of Supervision was issued seven days before President Biden left office and therefore managed by the Trump administration. If the Order of Supervision was not upheld for 8 months and they somehow lost track of the individual allegedly responsible for this heinous crime, then the Trump administration should answer to this."Since taking office, the Trump administration has implemented a new policy to deport nationals from countries without deportation agreements to third countries that are willing to accept them. Those countries include Guatemala, South Sudan, Eswatini and Rwanda."Rest assured, the time for being soft on these Illegal Immigrant Criminals is OVER under my watch! Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem, Attorney General Pam Bondi, Border Czar Tom Homan, and many others in my Administration, are doing an incredible job in, MAKING AMERICA SAFE AGAIN," Mr. Trump's post said.
Grisly attack, beheading at Dallas motelOn Sept. 10, Dallas police responded to the Downtown Suites motel on Samuell Boulevard in Old East Dallas. According to an arrest affidavit, Cobos-Martinez became upset with Nagamallaiah, pulled out a machete and started attacking.Nagamallaiah's wife and son, who were in the motel office, tried to intervene several times, police said, but Cobos-Martinez pushed them away and continued the attack. Cobos-Martinez then took Nagamallaiah's cell phone and key card from his pockets before again resuming the attack until Nagamallaiah's head "was removed from his body," police said.Mr. Trump said Cobos-Martinez would be charged with murder in the first degree, which is not a charge in Texas. The equivalent charge is capital murder, which carries a mandatory life sentence with the possibility of the death sentence.
More from CBS News
Trump sues New York Times for $15 billion for alleged "defamation and libel"
Trump announces second U.S. strike against alleged Venezuelan drug boat
Trump wants to abolish quarterly earnings reports. Here's why.
Judge says U.S. trying to circumvent legal protections with deportations to Ghana
Trump signs memo sending federal law enforcement to join Tennessee National Guard in Memphis
Dallas Police Department
Immigration
Donald Trump
Texas
Dallas
Steven
Rosenbaum
Steven Rosenbaum is a digital producer for CBS Texas. A versatile journalist, Steven writes, edits and produces content for the CBS Texas digital platforms.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Trump sues New York Times for $15 billion for alleged "defamation and libel"
Trump announces second U.S. strike against alleged Venezuelan drug boat
Trump wants to abolish quarterly earnings reports. Here's why.
Judge says U.S. trying to circumvent legal protections with deportations to Ghana
Featured
Charlie Kirk Death
Charlie Kirk Shooting Suspect
U.S. Losing Thousands of Manufacturing Jobs
2025 Emmy Awards
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Texas
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KTVT-TV
Public File for KTXA-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue