How to check for electrical fire hazards at home - and my go-to smart sensor for the task | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Smart Home
How to check for electrical fire hazards at home - and my go-to smart sensor for the task
Simply plug in this Ting smart sensor and let it handle the rest - it'll provide key insights into your home's risk of electrical fires.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 6:13 a.m. PT
Maria Diaz/ZDNETGet more in-depth ZDNET tech coverage: Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.I've had the Ting smart sensor monitor my home's electrical system and assess the risk of electrical fires for months, and I've been pleasantly surprised by how informative the process has been. The Ting features an easy installation -- no wiring or electricians involved. You only need to plug it in to get it started. Once you download the Ting mobile app, you can connect the sensor to Wi-Fi. You have to wait a few weeks for the Ting to familiarize itself with your home's electrical system before it gives you consistent status updates. Also: 8 smart home gadgets that instantly upgraded my house (and why they work)After learning your home, the Ting sensor monitors the electrical current 24/7, looking for issues in wiring, outlets, and even appliances. Basically, the Ting monitors all the electrical in your house that could spark an electrical fire, including incoming power. It also watches your home's voltage, power outages, and upcoming storms that may cause you to lose power.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Ting Smart Sensor The Ting smart sensor can detect an electrical fire before it sparks.
details
View at Amazon Ting detects electrical issues that you would otherwise not know about, which could potentially start a fire. These could include loose or damaged connections, like frayed cords, worn insulation, overloads, and faulty equipment.Also: Unplugging these 7 common household devices greatly reduced my electricity billAside from detecting significant issues in electricity, Ting can detect arcing, tiny electrical sparks that can happen due to age, poor installation, or bad construction. These scintillations are early warning signs that turn into bigger issues down the road, like tripped breakers or electrical fires. Get more in-depth ZDNET tech coverage: Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.Why I recommend this productThe Ting smart sensor is one of the easiest ways to gain extra insight into your home's electrical status. It alerts you when changes occur, including when the risk of an electrical fire increases. Even if a Ting sensor does not replace a smoke alarm, an alarm only alerts you after a fire has started and smoke has been detected. In contrast, a Ting alerts you of the possibility of a fire before it ignites. However, not all fires are caused by electrical issues, so having reliable smoke alarms is still imperative, Ting sensor or not. Beyond monitoring electrical safety, I love that Ting keeps me notified of power outages and even provides insight into nearby outages and potential risks for one happening in my home. When I'm away, Ting also tells me of severe weather alerts and a detailed log of when the power went out and when service was restored.Looking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
These 7 smart plug hacks changed how I run my home - here's the setup
This new app lets you easily track power outages nearby - and it's free
8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use