Why you need a cloud service in 2025 (and the 7 best I've used) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Why you need a cloud service in 2025 (and the 7 best I've used)
Using a reliable cloud storage platform is the best way to keep your files safe and shareable across devices. Here are the ones I recommend.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 24, 2025 at 12:30 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Kyle Kucharski
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysThe best way to prevent data loss is to back up your files onto a cloud storage service.On top of safeguarding documents and photos, you can access content across multiple devices.In this guide, I explain key terms, compare popular services, and even recommend third-party options, among other things.One of the most important (and harshest) lessons I've learned as a tech writer is to always back up your files. Sooner or later, the worst will happen -- you'll lose a project you've invested a lot of time and energy into, either due to a random glitch, file corruption, or a hard drive failure. Few things feel worse, and I say that from personal experience.Also: The best cloud storage servicesThat's where cloud storage comes in. Instead of relying on your computer's local drive, these services save important files, documents, and other forms of media to secure servers online. Not only do they protect your data from hardware failure (or theft), but they let you access it from anywhere around the world: a convenience that is second to none. Do backups really matter?
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETAbsolutely. I learned the hard way how devastating data loss can be. There's nothing worse than losing precious photos or a document you've been working on for weeks, just because an external hard drive gave up on life. That's why cloud storage is so valuable -- it gives you the peace of mind that your files are safe in the cloud, even if your computer cuts out.Also: Is OneDrive sending your Windows files to the cloud? Here's why - and what you can doA piece of advice I follow is the 3-2-1 rule. It suggests keeping three copies of your files: one on your PC, one on an external drive, and one on a cloud service. You may also see an expanded versions of these rules, but the idea remains the same: don't rely on just one thing.Which cloud services are the best?
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNETMicrosoft, Google, and Apple all have their own cloud storage platforms (OneDrive, Google Drive, and iCloud, respectively) and give users a small amount of free space. It's a nice perk to get whenever you sign up for an account on their respective platforms. While all three perform the same basic function, they're not all equal. In my opinion, Google Drive is the best.Google's service comes out on top because it offers 15GB of free storage for backing up photos, videos, documents, and more. In comparison, both OneDrive and iCloud only provide 5GB of free space, which fills up fast. Having that extra 10GB makes a huge difference.Also: How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PCIf you ever need more space, all three offer premium tiers tied to a monthly subscription, and it's here that things become more competitive. The winner isn't so clear-cut anymore. Google One charges $2 per month for 100GB of storage -- the same as Microsoft 365 Basic. However, Microsoft also adds in perks like ransomware protection. iCloud+ doesn't have a 100TB tier, but it does offer 50GB for $1 a month.At the higher end, Google One and iCloud+ offer 2TB of storage for $10 a month. Google pulls ahead by including Google Store discounts and additional Workspace features. Microsoft's $10 plan only provides 1TB unless you're willing to pay more, making Google's services the better value overall.Microsoft 365 is still a solid option; however, if you decide to go with Microsoft's service, be aware that OneDrive Backup might move your Documents, Pictures, and Desktop folders to a new location without creating a copy on your personal drive (or anywhere). Don't worry if and when this happens; it's just a quirk of the feature. Your files are safe.Which third-party cloud services are best?
ProtonBeyond the big three, there are plenty of third-party cloud storage services, like Box and Backblaze, but Mega is a personal favorite. Its free account is one of the most generous by giving 20GB of free storage space, surpassing Google's already impressive 15GB. What really sets Mega apart, though, is that it utilizes E2EE (end-to-end encryption) to secure your files.Also: Keep your data out of third-party clouds by self-hosting - here's howE2EE is a crucial safeguard because it prevents outside parties -- include the service itself -- from accessing your files. Neither Google nor Microsoft uses the standard for their respective platforms. Apple's iCloud supports E2EE through its ADP feature (Advanced Data Protection), but it's not enabled by default.Once again, there are other options. Mega exists in a middle ground between mainstream platforms like Google Drive and more privacy-focused options. If data security is a top priority, I recommend Proton Drive, which offers better file privacy and protection. Just be aware that Proton Drive Free only offers 5GB of storage.Also: How I saved myself $1200 a year in cloud storage - in 5 sobering stepsMost, if not all, cloud storage services offer subscription plans that provide large amounts of storage, which is great if you're a content creator. However, expenses can get wildly out of control, as experienced by ZDNET's Senior Contributing Editor David Gewirtz. He reached a point where he was paying $2,357 a year. This doesn't have to be you. By making informed (sometimes tough) decisions, costs don't have to be super high.Common terms to know
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETWhen exploring different cloud service providers, you'll quickly encounter a flood of jargon and acronyms, which can all feel overwhelming. To make things easier, I've put together a short glossary of a few of the most important terms you're likely to encounter. Cloud storage - Saving individual files and folders onto a remote server for safekeeping.Cloud backup - Instead of just storing select files, this creates a copy of your entire computer system that can be restored at a later time or onto a new device. You can even save your system from a specific point in time.Cloud sync - Allows your computer to automatically upload files to a cloud service whenever changes are made.E2EE (end-to-end encryption) - Encrypts data so only the sender and recipient can view its content. Not every cloud service supports this, so be mindful of this.Public cloud - A storage service offered over the internet that anyone can access with an account, such as Google Drive. By contrast, a private cloud is owned by a company or organization.2FA (two-factor authentication) - Adds an extra step to the login process to improve security. This can include entering a passkey or using biometrics.I'll keep things short here. There are other terms like "SaaS" (software as a service); however, most of these are geared toward businesses. The short glossary above consists of the main terms you need to know as a casual user.
Why should you trust me?
I've been writing about both software and consumer electronics for almost 10 years now, and in that time, I've relied on cloud platforms to help advance my career. I don't think I would've made it as far as I have if it weren't for Google Drive or OneDrive. I've worked in traditional office spaces, a home office, and even someone's backyard.I needed a way to have constant access to my files, no matter where I was, and safeguard them from outside forces. As a result, I am extremely selective about the services I use to store my data. I'm online all day, nearly every day, so reliable storage isn't just nice to have -- it's vital.Also: I tested several AIO computers in 2025, and these are the best for your office setupI'm at a point where I know exactly what features make for a good cloud service, and which ones come up short. The advice I have given is not a set of hard and fast rules. I just aim to provide a foundation of what you should look for in cloud storage. What is best for you depends on your unique needs.
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Keep your data out of third-party clouds by self-hosting - here's how
How much RAM do you really need in 2025? I broke it down for Mac and Windows users
My new favorite note-taking app for MacOS and Linux checks this crucial box - and it's free
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use