Microsoft will offer free Windows 10 extended security updates in Europe
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft will offer free Windows 10 extended security updates in Europe
Microsoft will offer free Windows 10 extended security updates in Europe
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 25, 2025
08:45 AM
1
Update September 25, 14:58 EDT: In a follow-up statement after the article was published, Microsoft told BleepingComputer that EEA customers will only be able to get free Windows 10 extended security updates if they log in to Windows and enroll using a Microsoft account.
"Sign in to your PC with a Microsoft account (MSA) and stay signed in to receive ESU updates at no additional cost," a Microsoft spokesperson said. "If your MSA is not used to sign in for a period of up to 60 days, ESU updates will be discontinued, and you’ll need to re-enroll by signing in using the same MSA."
Microsoft will offer free extended security updates for Windows 10 users in the European Economic Area (EEA), which includes Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and all 27 European Union member states.
This announcement follows Microsoft's statement in June that home users will be able to enroll in the Extended Security Updates (ESU) program at no additional cost, using their Microsoft Rewards points or by enabling Windows Backup.
The company took this decision following pressure from Euroconsumers, a large Luxembourg-based consumer protection organization that represents a consumer base of 1.5 million households across Europe and Brazil.
"We are pleased to learn that Microsoft will provide a no-cost Extended Security Updates (ESU) option for Windows 10 consumer users in the European Economic Area (EEA). We are also glad this option will not require users to back up settings, apps, or credentials, or use Microsoft Rewards," Euroconsumers said in a letter to Microsoft.
"This was our main Digital Markets Act (DMA) related concern, as linking access to essential security updates to engagement with Microsoft's own services raised reasonable doubt of compliance with obligations under Article 6(6) of the DMA."
The consumer advocacy group also requested that Microsoft postpone the Windows 10 end-of-support date beyond October 14, 2025, noting that previous versions, such as Windows 7 and Windows XP, were supported for more than 7 years after Windows 8 and Windows Vista were introduced.
While Microsoft didn't reply to a request for comment when BleepingComputer reached out earlier today, a Redmond spokesperson confirmed the decision in a statement shared with Windows Central earlier today.
"In the European Economic Area, we're making updates to the enrollment process to ensure it meets local expectations and delivers a secure, streamlined experience," Microsoft said. "Our goal is to support customers and provide them with options as they transition to Windows 11, with uninterrupted access to critical security updates."
Microsoft will stop providing bug fixes and security updates to address newly discovered vulnerabilities, leaving unpatched systems vulnerable to attacks and malware, after Windows 10 reaches the end of support on October 14.
Two weeks ago, the company advised Windows 10 users to upgrade eligible systems to Windows 11 or migrate to Windows 11 in the cloud with Windows 365 if they want their devices to keep receiving bug fixes and security updates.
Users can delay switching to Windows 11 by enrolling in the ESU program, which costs $30 for home users and $61 per device for one year for enterprise customers. This program is also available for free to home users who enable Windows Backup to sync their data to the cloud or use Microsoft Rewards points to enroll.
According to Statcounter Global Stats, Windows 11 has surpassed Windows 10's number of installs almost one year after rolling out to eligible devices, with over 49% of all Windows systems running Windows 11, compared to just over 45% on Windows 10.
Additionally, as of August 2025, Steam's Hardware & Software Survey indicates that 60% of gamers use Windows 11, while 35% use Windows 10.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 daysMicrosoft fixes app install issues caused by August Windows updatesMicrosoft says recent Windows updates cause app install issuesMicrosoft releases emergency updates to fix Windows recoveryMicrosoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in two months
Extended Security Updates
Microsoft
Windows
Windows 10
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
ZeroYourHero
-
4 hours ago
This scam of making customers pay for Microsoft to fix their mistakes repetitively and make "improvements" that nobody asks for needs to end.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
CISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploit
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT