Cloud Solutions for Retailers | Industry Overview | AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Retail & Consumer Goods
Overview
Segments
Solution Areas
Services
Case Studies
More
AWS›
Retail & Consumer Goods›
Retail
Retail
AWS, born from retail and built for retailers, offers the most comprehensive portfolio of cloud, analytics, and artificial intelligence capabilities, decades of industry experience, and the largest partner community.
Get started with AWS
Amazon Nova is new generation of foundational models for retail use cases
State-of-the-art Foundation Models (FMs) from Amazon
Amazon Nova helps retailers and consumer goods companies cost-effectively create accurate, compelling product descriptions, imagery, and videos with unprecedented speed and scale, making it easier for consumers to find and buy the items they need.
Learn more about Amazon Nova
Amazon Ads uses Amazon Nova to help brands create product images and videos
On average, brands that used AI-powered creative solutions were seen to advertise 5 times more products and use twice as many images per advertised product over those that did not, allowing them to expand campaigns and experiment with new strategies.
See how Amazon Ads customers are using Amazon Nova
Optimize supply chain decisions with Amazon Nova Pro
Retail and consumer goods companies can quickly detect supply chain disruptions and reallocate inventory to prevent stockouts and lost sales with Amazon Nova Pro, which uses Chain of Thought prompting to break down complex tasks into a sequenced, actionable plan.
Learn more about Amazon Nova
Born from retail, built for retailers
Unlock new insights and improve profitability across the entire value chain. With retail solutions from AWS and AWS Partners, you can efficiently attract and retain customers, deliver seamless shopping experiences, and optimize merchandising and supply chain processes.
Benefits of retail
Generate actionable insights
Leverage analytics and artificial intelligence to optimize supply chain agility, enhance merchandising and planning, and boost marketing and advertising performance.
Deliver connected shopping experiences
Deliver consistent, seamless shopping experiences across channels and a range of customer touchpoints, including payment, shipping, and search.
Optimize retail operations
Streamline store operations using analytics, AI, and computer vision solutions to improve inventory management, loss prevention, workforce management, and more.
Customer stories
Leading retailers worldwide leverage AWS cloud capabilities to modernize their infrastructure and run industry-specific workloads.
Amazon.com
Leading Cloud Innovators: Amazon.com on AWS
Amazon.com migrated 5,000 databases from Oracle to AWS, cutting its annual database operating costs by more than half and reducing the latency of most critical services by 40 percent. The company leverages Amazon DynamoDB to scale Prime Video and Amazon SageMaker to indentify misplaced inventory.
Read the story
Neiman Marcus
Neiman Marcus increases new application speed to market by 50%
Neiman Marcus, a well-known name in luxury retail, built a serverless architecture using AWS Amplify and AWS AppSync to speed up app development time and increase speed-to-market.
Read the case study | Learn More
Morrisons
Morrisons delivers a self-serve contact center in 8 weeks on Amazon Connect
Morrisons, one of the UK’s largest grocery chains, migrated its contact center to Amazon Connect, enabling it to deliver a new customer experience and become operationally self-sufficient.
Read the case study | Learn More
Petco
Petco brings convenience and personalization to pet parents with AWS
See how Petco, with 1,500 locations across the US, is using AWS to build innovative microservices, bringing new features to its website and inventing better ways to help pet parents get the products and services they need.
Read the the blog | Learn More
Zalando
Zalando tracks business performance in near real-time with AWS
Learn how Zalando, a European online fashion retailer, migrated its SAP systems from an on-premises infrastructure to AWS, and cut IT management time by more than 30%.
Read the case study | Learn More
Explore solution areas for retail
Customer engagement & marketing
Maximize marketing effectiveness and improve customer experiences.
Explore solution
Digital commerce
Deliver engaging, secure shopping experiences across digital channels, increasing conversions and profitability.
Explore solution
Data & intelligence
Build the data foundation needed to generate actionable insights.
Explore solution
Supply chain
Improve supply chain resiliency and agility while reducing costs.
Explore solution
Merchandising & planning
Improve merchandising and planning decisions, from pricing to assortment planning.
Explore solution
Smart stores
Gain deeper shopper insights, streamline operations, and reinvent the shopping experience.
Explore solution
Innovate with key industry partners
Modernize, transform, and innovate faster with access to a broad selection of pre-built solutions from over 160 validated AWS Retail Competency Partners.
AWS purpose-built retail partner solutions
Confidently deploy pre-built AWS Partner solutions from the AWS Solutions library—designed to help retailers innovate faster and at scale. Browse AWS Retail Solutions
AWS Retail Competency Partners
Accelerate digital transformation with access to an unmatched community of retail expert partners. Find all AWS Retail Competency Partners
AWS Marketplace for retail solutions
Easily discover, procure, deploy, and manage cloud technology and data management solutions purpose-built for the retail industry. Explore AWS Marketplace for Retail
Retail partner content hub
Explore articles, blogs, whitepapers, videos, webinars, and case studies featuring retail industry partner solutions, and customer success stories. Explore AWS Retail Partners content
Get started
Get started
Get started with AWS
Driving Retail and Consumer Goods innovation with generative AI
Read more
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.