Zell Liew on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Zell Liew
Direct link to the article Composition in CSS
cascade CSS specificity
Composition in CSS
CSS is a composable language by nature. This composition nature is already built into the cascade. We simply don't talk about composition as a Big Thing because it's the nature of the language.
Sep 8, 2025
Direct link to the article We Might Need Something Between Root and Relative CSS Units for “Base Elements”
CSS CSS functions typography
We Might Need Something Between Root and Relative CSS Units for “Base Elements”
I've come to realize that perhaps we need to have a unit between root and relative values. This would bring about a whole new possibility when creating reusable components.
Aug 13, 2025
Direct link to the article Thinking Deeply About Theming and Color Naming
color UI/IX Design
Thinking Deeply About Theming and Color Naming
Today, I want to discuss a couple of patterns for naming color palettes that the community is using, and how I propose we can improve, so we achieve both flexibility and beauty.
Aug 4, 2025
Direct link to the article Making a Masonry Layout That Works Today
layout masonry
Making a Masonry Layout That Works Today
I went on to figure out how make masonry work today with other browsers. I'm happy to report I've found a way — and, bonus! — that support can be provided with only 66 lines of JavaScript.
Jul 28, 2025
Direct link to the article A Primer on Focus Trapping
accessibility JavaScript
A Primer on Focus Trapping
Focus trapping is about managing focus within an element, such that focus always stays within it. The whole process sounds simple in theory, but it can quite difficult to build in practice, mostly because of the numerous parts to you got to manage.
Jul 22, 2025
Direct link to the article Using CSS Cascade Layers With Tailwind Utilities
cascade layers framework tailwind
Using CSS Cascade Layers With Tailwind Utilities
Being the bad boy I am, I don't take Tailwind's default approach to cascade layers as the "best" one. Over a year experimenting with Tailwind and vanilla CSS, I've come across what I believe is a better solution.
Jul 21, 2025
Direct link to the article A Better API for the Intersection and Mutation Observers
JavaScript
A Better API for the Intersection and Mutation Observers
Zell discusses refactoring the Resize, Mutation, and Intersection Observer APIs for easier usage, demonstrating how to implement callback and event listener patterns, while highlighting available options and methods.
Jul 14, 2025
Direct link to the article A Better API for the Resize Observer
JavaScript
A Better API for the Resize Observer
ResizeObserver, MutationObserver, and IntersectionObserver enhance performance over their predecessors. Zell discusses their API similarities, usage steps, refactoring strategies, and advantages with practical examples.
Jun 16, 2025
Direct link to the article So, You Want to Give Up CSS Pre- and Post-Processors…
css preprocessors postcss tailwind
So, You Want to Give Up CSS Pre- and Post-Processors…
There was once upon a time when native CSS lacked many essential features, leaving developers to come up with all sorts of ways to make CSS easier to write over the years.
Apr 17, 2025
TOC
I think post-processors have won the compiling game
Native CSS gaining essential features
Tailwind removing support for pre-processors
Lightning CSS
If you wanna ditch pre-processors today
1
2
3
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top