Big Three (American television) - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Backgrounds
2
Network competition
Toggle Network competition subsection
2.1
Early era
2.2
Fox
2.3
1990s–present
2.4
PBS
2.5
Market share
3
See also
4
References
Toggle the table of contents
Big Three (American television)
3 languages
العربيةSimple English中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Informal name for major US TV broadcast networks
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Big Three" American television – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
The "Big Four" major American broadcast television networks: NBC, CBS, ABC, and Fox, arranged by the year each network began regular television broadcasting in the United States.
This article is part of a
US culture series on theTelevision of the United StatesAmerican family watching TV in 1958
Timeline
Networks
History
Prewar broadcasting
Golden Age
Network era
Multi-channel transition
New Golden Age
Post-network era
Streaming wars
History by decade
History of:
Sports broadcasting
Public broadcasting
Children's television
TV animation: (Network era · Modern era)
Genres
Daytime
Sitcoms
News (Cable news)
Networks
Over-the-air
Pay channels
Programming and Ratings
Most Watched
United States portalvte
From the 1950s to the 1980s, during the network era of American television, there were three commercial broadcast television networks – NBC (the National Broadcasting Company, "the Peacock Network"), CBS (the Columbia Broadcasting System, "the Eye Network"), ABC (the American Broadcasting Company, "the Alphabet Network") – that due to their longevity and ratings success are informally referred to as the "Big Three". The three networks' dominance was interrupted with the launch of Fox (the Fox Broadcasting Company, "the Searchlight Network") in 1986, leading it to join them as one of the expanded "Big Four", while the viewership shares of all the major broadcast networks declined over the following years.[1]
Backgrounds[edit]
The National Broadcasting Company and Columbia Broadcasting System were both founded as radio networks in the 1920s, with NBC eventually encompassing two national radio networks, the prestige Red Network and the lower-profile Blue Network. They gradually began experimental television stations in the 1930s, with commercial broadcasts being allowed by the Federal Communications Commission on July 1, 1941.[2] In 1943, the U.S. government determined that NBC's two-network setup was anticompetitive and forced it to spin off one of the networks; NBC chose to sell the Blue Network operations, which eventually became the American Broadcasting Company.[3]
All three networks began regular, commercial television broadcasts in the 1940s. NBC and CBS began commercial operations in 1941, followed by ABC in 1948. A smaller fourth network, the DuMont Television Network, launched in 1944.[4] The three networks originally controlled only a few local television stations, but they quickly affiliated with other stations to cover almost the entire U.S. by the late 1950s. Several of these stations affiliated with all three major networks and DuMont, or some combination of the four, in markets where only one or two television stations operated in the early years of commercial television; this resulted in several network shows, often those with lower national viewership, receiving scattershot market clearances, since in addition to maintaining limited broadcast schedules early on, affiliates that shoehorned programming from many networks had to also make room for locally produced content. As other stations signed on in larger cities, ABC, NBC, and CBS were eventually able to carry at least a sizable portion of their programming on one station.
Of the four original networks, only DuMont did not have a corresponding radio network. Ironically, the fourth radio network of the Golden Age of Radio era, the Mutual Broadcasting System, which maintained a long time extensive news reporting unit up to the 1980s, had briefly considered the idea of transitioning with expansion and launching a television network, with consideration being made to have film studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer supply programming talent. Plans for the proposed Mutual-branded network advanced far enough that, at the annual meeting of Mutual stockholders in April 1950, network president Frank White made an official announcement of the planned creation of a limited five-station Mutual network (Boston-WNAC, New York City-WOR, Washington, D.C.-WOIC, Chicago-WGN, and Los Angeles-KHJ).[5] At that same time Mutual radio station KQV in Pittsburgh, which was engaged in an ultimately unsuccessful attempt to get a television license, was reportedly hoping for their station to be a Mutual television affiliate.[6] "Mutual Television Network" ended up being the decided-on branding for the Mutual-branded network.[7] However, the 5-station Mutual network failed in short time, and Mutual became the only minor radio network outside the "Big Three" American radio networks, even with a short-lived TV network, to not be long-term connected to (and eventually lose its dominance to) a television network. Afterwards, Mutual's individual component stations themselves launched television outlets in their home cities. Some of Mutual's component stations bought a stake in the Overmyer Network in 1967 (resulting in a branding change to "The United Network"), but other than a single late-night talk show, The Las Vegas Show, which lasted one month, that network never made it to its full launch.
Network competition[edit]
History of television in the United States
Eras
Prewar and wartime broadcasting (1928–1947)
First Golden Age (1947–1960)
Network era (1950s–1980s)
Multi-channel transition (1980s–1990s)
Peak TV and the post-network era (1999–c. 2023)
Streaming wars (2019–2022)
Histories
Sports broadcasting
Public broadcasting
Children's television
TV animation (Network era · Modern era)
History by decade
Early era[edit]
For most of the history of television in the United States, the Big Three dominated, controlling the vast majority of television broadcasting.[8] DuMont ceased regular programming in 1955; the NTA Film Network, unusual in that its programming, all pre-recorded, was distributed by mail instead of through communications wires, signed on in 1956 and lasted until 1961. From 1961, and lasting until the early 1990s, there were only three major networks. Every hit series appearing in the Nielsen top 20 television programs and every successful commercial network telecast of a major feature film was aired by one of the Big Three networks.[9]
Fox[edit]
A viable fourth television network in the commercial sense would not again become competitive with the Big Three until Fox was founded in October 1986 from some of the assets and remnants of the DuMont network, which had become Metromedia after DuMont folded, and were acquired by News Corporation earlier in 1986.[10] Fox, which began as a distant fourth network, rose to major network status in 1994 after must-carry rules took effect; the rules allowed Fox affiliates to force their way onto cable lineups, and the network's affiliation deal with New World Communications, which it later purchased in 1996, and the acquisition of National Football League broadcast rights brought a wave of new Fox affiliates.
Since its founding, Fox has surpassed ABC and NBC in the ratings during the early primetime hours in which it competes against the longer-established networks, becoming the second most-watched network behind CBS during the 2000s. During the 2007–08 season, Fox was the highest-rated of the major broadcast networks, as well as the first non-Big Three network to reach first place, but it lost the spot in the 2008–09 season and dropped to a close second. From 2004 to 2012 and 2020 to 2021, Fox also dominated American television in the lucrative and viewer-rich 18–49 age demographics, in large part due to the success of its NFL coverage and its top-rated prime time program, American Idol. Given the network's success in its prime time and sports offerings, it has been occasionally included with the Big Three, in which case the phrase "Big Four" is used.
Although Fox has firmly established itself as the nation's fourth major network with its ratings success, it is not considered part of the Big Three. Among Fox's differences with the Big Three is its reduced weekday programming. It lacks national morning and evening news programs; Fox has a news division consisting of cable and radio operations, but does not provide content for the broadcast television network other than a weekly news analysis program, limited special breaking news reports and an affiliate news service for its stations called Fox News Edge. Fox does not feature any daytime programming on weekdays, a third hour of prime time, or late-night talk shows.
1990s–present[edit]
Other networks eventually launched in an attempt to compete with the Big Three as well as Fox, although these "netlets" have been unable to ascend to the same level of success. The WB[11] and UPN launched in 1995; like Fox, they both added nights of prime time programming over the course of a few years, although The WB was the only one that aired any on weekends, carrying a Sunday night lineup for all but its first half-season on the air.[12] In 1998, The WB launched The WB 100+ Station Group, a programming service primarily intended for smaller markets.
Both networks mainly aired only prime time and children's programming. The latter was the only form of weekday daytime programming offered by either one, although UPN discontinued its children's lineup in 2003 at the conclusion of a content deal with Disney, and UPN aired sports programming via the short-lived XFL, as well as WWF SmackDown!.[13][14]
While The WB and UPN each had a few popular series during their existences, they struggled for overall viewership and financial losses. This led their respective parent companies, Time Warner and CBS Corporation, to shut them down and jointly launch The CW and The CW Plus in 2006.[15] The CW initially featured a mix of programs from both predecessors, as well as some newer shows after the launch. The last surviving series of The CW's predecessors — Supernatural, from The WB — continued until its finale on The CW in 2020.[16] Nexstar Media Group acquired a 75-percent ownership stake in The CW on October 3, 2022; former joint owners Paramount Skydance (successor to CBS Corporation) and Warner Bros. Discovery (successor to Time Warner) retained a 25-percent stake, split at nominal 12.5-percent stakes for both companies.[17] Under Nexstar, The CW also began to broaden its programming to include national news (primarily via collaborations with Nexstar-owned cable news channel NewsNation)[18] and sports programming,[19][20][21]
Fox launched MyNetworkTV at the same time as The CW, with a lineup of English language telenovelas;[22] it later shifted toward unscripted programs and movies, though its persistent lack of ratings success led News Corporation in 2009 to convert it to a syndication service, which primarily carries acquired programming.[23]
Pax TV, a venture of Paxson Communications, debuted on August 31, 1998, as an attempted seventh broadcast network to compete against UPN and The WB; although Pax carried a limited schedule of first-run programs in its early years, its schedule otherwise was composed mainly of syndicated reruns. Pax TV later rebranded to i: Independent Television in 2005, before it was renamed to Ion Television in 2007.
PBS[edit]
Logo of PBS
Likewise, the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), which has existed since 1970, is not considered to be a "Big" network. PBS operates as a noncommercial service with a very different distribution form compared to the major networks; its member stations basically own the network instead of the traditional mode of a network owning some of its stations and affiliating with additional stations owned by other broadcasters, and it maintains memberships with more than one educational station in a few markets.[24]
Market share[edit]
In the 21st century, the "Big Four" have controlled only a relatively small portion of the broadcasting market in the United States. By 2007, their collective share was estimated at a combined 32%.[1] The Big Three's market share has declined considerably as a result of growing competition from other broadcast networks such as Ion Television, The CW, and MyNetworkTV; Spanish language networks such as Univision, UniMás, and Telemundo; national cable and satellite channels such as TNT, ESPN, and AMC; and streaming channels such as Netflix.[1]
Each of the Big Four networks is now owned by a media conglomerate, providing corporate synergy with various cable channels, a major film studio, a companion streaming service, and other sibling media assets. NBC is owned by NBCUniversal, a Comcast company (whose assets include Universal Pictures, Peacock, Universal Destinations & Experiences, E!, MSNBC, and Golf Channel), since 2004,[25] CBS and the CW are owned by Paramount Skydance (who also owns Paramount Pictures, MTV, Showtime, Nickelodeon and Paramount+, among other units; The CW and The CW Plus is jointly owned with Warner Bros. Discovery and Nexstar Media) since 2019,[26] ABC is owned by The Walt Disney Company (whose assets now consist of, but not limited to, Disney Experiences, Disney Channel, Walt Disney Pictures, 20th Century Studios, ESPN, Disney+ and Hulu) since 1996,[27] and Fox and MyNetworkTV are owned by Fox Corporation (who assets include Fox News, Tubi, Fox Sports, and others) since 2019.
See also[edit]
Network era
Lists of ABC television affiliates
Lists of NBC television affiliates
Lists of CBS television affiliates
Lists of Fox television affiliates
Cable television in the United States
Communications in the United States
Fourth television network
High-definition television in the United States
Lists of television stations in the United States
List of United States pay television channels
List of United States over-the-air television networks
List of television stations in North America by media market
Satellite television in the United States
Television in the United States
Television news in the United States
United States cable news
References[edit]
^ a b c Douglas Blanks Hindman; Kenneth Wiegand (2008). "The big three's prime-time decline: a technological and social context" (PDF). Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media. Retrieved March 19, 2014.
^ Jeff Kisseloff (1995). The Box: An Oral History of Television, 1920–1961. New York: Viking. pp. 42–48, 69–79. ISBN 0-670-86470-6.
^ Jeff Kisseloff (1995). The Box: An Oral History of Television, 1920–1961. New York: Viking. p. 505. ISBN 0-670-86470-6.
^ H. Castleman; W. Podrazik (1982). Watching TV: Four Decades of American Television. New York: McGraw-Hill. p. 314.
^ "MBS Television Plans Readied". Eugene Register-Guard. United Press. April 17, 1950. p. 2. Retrieved October 3, 2024.
^ Si Steinhauser (April 18, 1950). "TV Fans Rush to 'Aid' Silent Star on Vedio [sic]". The Pittsburgh Press. p. 43. Retrieved October 3, 2024.
^ Malloy, C.S.C, Edward A. (August 24, 2009). Monk's Tale: The Pilgrimage Begins, 1941–1975. University of Notre Dame Press. ISBN 978-0-268-16201-6. Television provided my first exposure to Notre Dame when I happened to watch an Irish football game in the 1950s on the Mutual Television Network (Washington [D.C.] being one of the few cities to have an outlet).
^ Schneider, Michael (December 27, 2016). "Most-Watched Television Networks: Ranking 2016's Winners and Losers". IndieWire. Retrieved August 11, 2017.
^ Alex McNeil (1996). Total Television, 4th edition. New York: Penguin Books. pp. 1143–1161. ISBN 0-14-024916-8.
^ "Murdoch acquired six Metromedia TV stations". Los Angeles Times. March 7, 1986. Retrieved May 9, 2014.
^ "Time Warner TV Network to Cover 40% of Nation". The Buffalo News. HighBeam Research. November 2, 1993. Archived from the original on June 10, 2014. Retrieved May 28, 2013.
^ Braxton, Greg (May 23, 1995). "WB Beefs Up Its Prime-Time Lineup : Television: With the addition of Sunday, the network will have two nights and 13 hours of programming, aimed at kids, teens and families". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 23, 2023.
^ Bernstein, Paula; Schneider, Michael (May 19, 2000). "UPN Kicks off Sundays with Extreme Football". Variety. Archived from the original on October 15, 2015. Retrieved January 21, 2023.
^ Dempsey, John (May 12, 2001). "It's Sudden Death for XFL". Variety. Archived from the original on October 15, 2015. Retrieved January 21, 2023.
^ "UPN and WB to Combine, Forming New TV Network". The New York Times. January 24, 2006.
^ Pedersen, Erik (August 17, 2020). "The CW Fall Sets Premiere Dates For 'Supernatural', 'Swamp Thing', 'Devils' & More". Deadline. Retrieved January 22, 2023.
^ Hayes, Dade (October 3, 2022). "New Day Dawns For Broadcast TV As Nexstar Closes Deal For Control Of The CW". Deadline. Archived from the original on October 14, 2022. Retrieved January 17, 2023.
^ Weprin, Alex (November 9, 2023). "NewsNation and The CW Snag GOP Primary Debate, Megyn Kelly and Elizabeth Vargas to Moderate". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved November 9, 2023.
^ Maas, Jennifer (July 13, 2023). "The CW Scores Four-Season Rights to 50 ACC College Football and Basketball Games From Raycom, ESPN". Variety.
^ Goldsmith, Jill; Hayes, Dade (May 14, 2024). "The CW Network Adds Pac-12 Football Games To Growing Sports Roster". Deadline. Retrieved June 9, 2024.
^ "The CW getting early drop of green flag with NASCAR coverage thanks to NBC". Sports Business Journal. September 20, 2024. Retrieved September 24, 2024.
^ "News Corp. Unveils My Network TV". Broadcasting & Cable. February 22, 2006.
^ Michael Malone (February 9, 2009). "MyNetworkTV Shifts From Network to Programming Service". Broadcasting & Cable. Retrieved September 23, 2012.
^ "CPB FAQ". cpb.org. January 6, 2016. Retrieved May 21, 2023. PBS is a private, nonprofit media enterprise owned by its member public television stations.
^ Keating, Gina (December 3, 2009). "TIMELINE: NBC, Universal through the 20th century and beyond". Reuters. Retrieved May 21, 2023.
^ Littleton, Cynthia (December 4, 2019). "CBS and Viacom Complete Merger: 'It's Been a Long and Winding Road to Get Here'". Variety. Retrieved May 21, 2023.
^ Wollenberg, Skip (February 9, 1996). "Disney Completes $19 Billion Buyout of Capital Cities/ABC". AP NEWS. Retrieved May 21, 2023.
vteBroadcast television networks in the United StatesvteCurrent English-language broadcast television networks in the United StatesMajor
ABC
CBS
The CW
The CW Plus
Fox
MyNetworkTV
NBC
Public
PBS
Satellite Service
Kids
Classic Arts Showcase
Create
First Nations Experience
World Channel
SpecialtyDomestic news
Newsmax2
Real America's Voice
YTA TV
International news
CaribVision
Deutsche Welle
France 24
NHK World
Weather
Fox Weather
WeatherNation
Sports
beIN Sports Xtra
Rev'n
MinorityBlack
Bounce TV
Dabl
TheGrio
Soul of the South
365BLK
Asian
Asia Vision
Diya TV
NTD
VIETV
Korean
Arirang TV
Arirang Radio
KBS America
MBC America
Reality and lifestyle
Defy
Fave TV
Localish
Merit TV
The Nest
Nosey
Quest
Music
CA Music
The Country Network
Heartland
LATV
Legal & true crime
Court TV
Law & Crime Network
NBC American Crimes
Oxygen
True Crime Network
Classic
Ace TV
Cozi TV
Get
MeTV
MeTV+
MeTV Toons
Retro TV
Films
Movies!
NOST
Comedy
Antenna TV
Rewind TV
Catchy Comedy
Laff
Roar
Westerns
Grit
Outlaw
WEST
Drama & action
Action
Charge!
Comet
H&I
Start TV
Ion
Ion Mystery
Ion Plus
Niche & genre
Buzzr
Family Channel
Story TV
Religious
CBN News
Cornerstone
Daystar
RadiantTV
SonLife
TBN
Inspire
Positiv
TCT
Home shopping
HSN
Jewelry TV
OnTV4U
QVC
Shop LC
vteDefunct English-language broadcast television networks in the United StatesMajor commercial
DuMont
UPN
The WB
Pax TV
PTEN
OPT
NTA Film Network
ON/United
Paramount Television Network
Minor commercial
America One
AIN
Channel America
Cheddarci
Circlei
Classic Reruns TV
Digi-TV
Hughes
JUCE TV
Light TV
Mizlou
Mutual Television Network
N1
NATVi
NBC LX Home
Omni
PBJ
Plum TV
qubo
SFM Holiday
Star
Smile
TrueReal
Theater TV
This TV
Tuff TV
Twist
UATV
VTV
The Works
Public
NET
MHz Worldviewi
ResearchChannel
SpecialtyNews
ABC News Nowi
All News Channel
DoD News
Local AccuWeather Channel
NBC Wx+/NBC+
Newsmax TVci
Newsy/Scripps Newsi
TouchVision
Sports
American Sports Network
Stadiumi
SportsGridi
Sportsmanc
TVS
Universal Sports
Home shopping
America's Store
Gems TV
Gun TV
Ion Shop
Shop at Home
ValueVision / ShopNBC / evine / ShopHQ
Music
Bohemia Visual Musici
The Box
MTV2c
Tr3sc
Retro Jams
TheCoolTV
The Tube
c - Now cable-only, i - Now internet-onlyvteSpanish-language broadcast television networks in the United StatesMajor domestic
Estrella TV
Telemundo
Univision
UniMas
Minor domestic
América TeVé
Nuestra Visión
Novelisima
LATV
Mega TV
TeleXitos
Visión Latina
Major imported
FORO
Canal 6/Multimedios
Milenio Televisión
Mexicanal
Canal Once
Canal 22
Telemax
Teleritmo
Religious
Almavision
Canal de La Fe
3ABN Latino
Enlace
Esperanza TV
ESNE
EWTN en Español
Tele Vida Abundante
Specialty
Cine Mexicano
Tele N
MiCasa Network
Mira TV
¡Sorpresa!
TeLe-Romántica
Defunct
América CV
Azteca América
Hispanic Television Network
Inmigrante TV
LAT TV
MundoMax
Soi TV
Tr3s
TuVisión
VasalloVision
vteReligious broadcast television networks in the United StatesTBN Networks
TBN
TBN Inspire
Positiv
Enlace (Spanish language)
Salsa
TBN Francophone (French language)
English
Al Karma TV
Adventist Review TV
Amazing Facts TV
BYU TV
CatholicTV
CFN
CBN
CTN
Cornerstone
Daystar
EICB TV
EWTN
FBC
GEB
GLC
GOD
Hope
IQRA TV
It Is Written TV
LLBN
SBN
3ABN
3ABN Dare to Dream Network
3ABN International (with 3ABN Australia)
3ABN Kids Network
3ABN Praise Him Music Network
3ABN Proclaim! Network
PTL
RadiantTV
SafeTV
TLN)
TCT
UBN
The Walk TV
Word
WHT
Spanish
Aliento Vision
Almavisión
Aviva TV
CTNi
Daystar Español
Esperanza TV
ESNE
Familia TV
Fe-TV
HCCN
Iglesia JEMIR
Red AdVenir
Tele Vida Abundante
3ABN Latino Network
Tvida Vision
Visión Latina
French
3ABN Français Network
Defunct
The Inspiration Network
JUCE TV
Kids & Teens TV
Sky Angel
Smile
Worship
vteAdditional resources on North American televisionNorth America
List of local television stations in North America
DTV transition
North American TV mini-template
Canada
Canadian networks
List of Canadian television networks
List of Canadian television channels
List of Canadian specialty channels
Local Canadian TV stations
List of United States stations available in Canada
2001 Vancouver TV realignment
2007 Canada broadcast TV realignment
Mexico
Mexican networks
Local Mexican TV stations
United States
American networks
List of American cable and satellite networks
List of American over-the-air networks
Local American TV stations (W)
Local American TV stations (K)
Spanish-language TV networks
1989 South Florida television affiliation switch
1994–1996 U.S. TV realignment
2006 U.S. TV realignment
List of Canadian television stations available in the United States
vteDigital television in North AmericaTerrestrialDigital broadcasting
ATSC tuners
Digital subchannels
Virtual channels
Distributed transmission system
Datacasting
Guide Plus
National Datacast
UpdateLogic
Metropolitan Television Alliance
Grand Alliance
Digital switchover
All-Channel Receiver Act
SAFER Act
Digital channel election
Set-top boxes
Digital television adapter
U.S. Converter Box Coupon Program
legislation
Analog passthrough
DVD recorders
Digital video recorders
Digital standards
ATSC standards
ATSC
ATSC-M/H
8VSB
A-VSB
E-VSB
PSIP
PMCP
full list
Standard-definition TV
480i
576i
Enhanced-definition TV
480p
576p
High-definition TV
720p
1080i
1080p
Ultra high-definition TV
2160p
Serial digital interface
Smart antennas
CEA-909
Digital networks
Digital multicast television network
see Template:American broadcast television
Template:Canadian television networks
National deployment
List by country
Canada
Mexico
United States
HDTV
transition
wireless spectrum auction
CableDigital cable
Digital-cable-ready TV
QAM tuners
Interactive-digital-cable-ready TV
OpenCable Application Platform
Encryption
Must-carry
Subscription TV
AllVid
CableCARD
Downloadable Conditional Access System
Tru2way
Satellite TV
DVB-S
Dish Network
GlobeCast World TV
Free-to-air receiver
Bell Satellite TV/Telus Satellite TV
Dish México
DigiCipher 2
4DTV
Shaw Direct
Claro Puerto Rico
Digital Satellite Service/DVB-S2
DirecTV
Vrio/Sky Brazil
Sky Mexico
IPTV
U-verse TV
Bell Fibe TV
FibreOP
Telus Optik TV
Technical issues
14:9 aspect ratio
Active Format Description
Broadcast flag
Channel protection ratios
HDTV blur
Hierarchical modulation
Pirate decryption
Standards conversion
Video on demand
vte Television in the United StatesStations and networks
Over-the-air television networks
ABC
CBS
NBC
Fox
Stations
Cable and satellite
Networks
High-definition
Channels
Awards and events
Emmy Awards
Primetime
Daytime
Children's & Family
International
Sports
News & Documentary
Technology & Engineering
Sylvania Award
Directors Guild of America Awards
Producers Guild of America Awards
Writers Guild of America Awards
Golden Globes
Screen Actors Guild Awards
TCA Awards
Critics' Choice TV Award
Peabody Awards
People's Choice Awards
NAACP Image Awards
Eddie Awards
Artios Awards
American Society of Cinematographers Awards
Humanitas Prize
ADG Excellence in Production Design Awards
Hugo Awards
Visual Effects Society Awards
Golden Reel Award
GLAAD Media Awards
MTV Movie & TV Awards
MTV Fandom Awards
Organizations
Academy of Television Arts & Sciences
Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers
American Society of Cinematographers
Directors Guild of America
Federal Communications Commission
Motion Picture Association
National Association of Broadcasters
National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences
National Cable & Telecommunications Association
Paley Center for Media
Producers Guild of America
SAG-AFTRA
Writers Guild of America
East
West
History
Prewar broadcasting
Golden Age
Network era
Multi-channel transition
New Golden Age
Post-network era
Streaming wars
History by decade
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Big_Three_(American_television)&oldid=1311910923"
Categories: 3 (number)1950s establishments in the United States1986 disestablishments in the United StatesHistory of television in the United StatesTelevision terminologyNBCCBSAmerican Broadcasting CompanyHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse American English from April 2021All Wikipedia articles written in American EnglishUse mdy dates from October 2021Articles needing additional references from December 2023All articles needing additional referencesPages using multiple image with auto scaled imagesArticles with excerpts
This page was last edited on 17 September 2025, at 15:57 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Big Three (American television)
3 languages
Add topic