10 Wallpaper Engine wallpapers for your new OLED monitor
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Got a new OLED monitor? Grab these 10 Wallpaper Engine wallpapers right now
By
Tanveer Singh
Published 3 days ago
After a 7-year corporate stint, Tanveer found his love for writing and tech too much to resist. An MBA in Marketing and the owner of a PC building business, he writes on PC hardware, technology, and Windows. When not scouring the web for ideas, he can be found building PCs, watching anime, or playing Smash Karts on his RTX 3080 (sigh).
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Wallpaper Engine is my favorite program when it comes to enhancing the look of my desktop. I have over 1,800 hours of usage on it, according to Steam, and I'm still in awe of how much value I'm getting out of it for a one-time fee of $4. After I got my first OLED monitor this month, I wanted some new wallpapers that would look especially cool on an OLED display. If you're in the same boat, the following wallpapers should be enough to get you started. For an OLED monitor, you should ideally use wallpapers with animated elements (to prevent burn-in) that take advantage of the display's high contrast. However, if you also have some static wallpapers in the mix, I advise running all your wallpapers in a rotating playlist that keeps changing the wallpapers after every few minutes.
Cyberpunk Night City Rain drops
Crisp raindrops and a neon cityscape
For those of you paranoid about burn-in on your brand-new OLED display, a wallpaper with blurred highlights in the background and moving elements in the foreground might be perfect. That's exactly what Cyberpunk Night City Rain drops is all about. Despite the frosted glass look of the neon cityscape in the background, the wallpaper is far from subdued. The bright city lights will still look impeccable on your OLED screen, and the cascading raindrops in the foreground not only give the scene some character, but also keep things from becoming too static. The water droplets also react to your mouse movements.
RE:CITY 4K
Light it up
RE: CITY 4K takes full advantage of the excellent per-pixel dimming of OLED monitors, thanks to the multiple bright lights emanating from the skyscrapers in the scene. The futuristic urban landscape also has towering holograms, jets of light shooting upward, and clouds lumbering across the scene as the audio greets you with a mix of traffic noise, city announcements, and a steady hum permeating everything. If you're concerned about static elements, you'll be glad to know that the entire wallpaper itself keeps moving back and forth, minimizing the risk of burn-in. It also has over 262,000 subscribers at the time of writing, signaling its popularity.
Childhood in a picture (w/ Nightcore - Highscore)
It's all in the name
If you prefer a nostalgic wallpaper instead of futuristic cityscapes, Childhood in a picture (w/ Nightcore - Highscore) will transport you into the 90s. With a Nintendo Game Boy and an X-Men Shattershot comic book next to a lollipop and other knick-knacks on a table, the wallpaper depicts a warm summer day. The sunlight streaming in from the window, the plant in the background, and a handful of particles moving about complement the fast-paced "Nightcore - Highscore" track. It might not be your typical OLED wallpaper, but it still looks breathtaking.
Ender Goku (Dragon Ball) WUHD (4K)
Flaunt that ultrawide OLED
My OLED display is a 34" ultrawide, so Ender Goku (Dragon Ball) WUHD (4K) is one of my favorites. This 3440 x 1440 wallpaper depicts a battle-ravaged, smirking Goku next to a menacing dragon on each side. The background is bathed in an eerie green glow, also reflected in the dragons' eyes. Goku's eyes are also glowing, and the red particles floating upward give the entire scene some more movement. Overall, this is one of the wallpapers that easily pops on a high-end monitor, and feels right at home on an OLED.
Anime Girl Error System 4K
For those who like music breaks
If you don't like flashing lights coming at you non-stop, skip this one. For everyone else, Anime Girl Error System 4K will easily become an instant favorite. The hook here is the audio-responsive nature of the wallpaper, which makes it go into a frenzy of lights the moment you have any audio playing on your system. The girl in the center has a small screen with "Now Loading" and "Error" messages, and some anime scenes playing on it on loop. The scene responds to your cursor so you can have some fun when playing music in your downtime. This one already has nearly 233,000 subscribers — that should tell you a lot about its popularity.
Moon Pool
Take it easy
Moon Pool isn't the most animated wallpaper you'll find on Wallpaper Engine, but it's certainly one of the most striking. The visually stunning art style of the scene is only overshadowed by what's happening in front of you — astronauts chilling by a swimming pool on the moon. You can make the central astronaut move slightly with your cursor, and bring the music system next to the pool to life by playing a track of your choice. Over 224,000 subscribers have already enjoyed this brilliant wallpaper, and you need to be next.
Song-So-Mi Cyberpunk-2077
For fans of Phantom Liberty
Those of you who loved CD Projekt Red's story expansion to Cyberpunk 2077 will most likely fall in love with Song-So-Mi Cyberpunk-2077 as well. The scene shows Song plugged into some serious cables in a room that's seen better days (I'm trying not to spoil it for others). The cables are pulsating with electricity across the room, and the screen is evenly split into red and blue hues. A bunch of characters are also floating upward as the wallpaper responds to your mouse movements. The red lighting reflected off Song is just the kind of thing that OLED displays excel at. And the song you hear is "Never Fade Away", which plays during a flashback mission in the main game, and also during some of the ending scenes.
『WLOP云虫』苍穹2 月牙儿 4K
I have this one on loop
This fantastical wallpaper might not seem "realistic", but it sure looks amazing on a high-quality display. 『WLOP云虫』苍穹2 月牙儿 4K starts with a girl on a motorcycle seemingly driving on water as she approaches a Gargantua-style black hole. The scene transitions to a close-up where the music slows down at the perfect moment as the beat drops. The high-res textures, highlights, and multiple tiny specsks of light make this wallpaper ideal for OLED monitors. Nearly 350,000 people have subscribed to it already — check this one out as soon as you can.
Ender Jinx Neon (Arcane) WUHD (4K) V1
Making your OLED shine
Despite being an ultrawide wallpaper, Ender Jinx Neon (Arcane) WUHD (4K) V1 will look equally good on 27-inch monitors. It shows Jinx from the Netflix anime Arcane (based on Runeterra from League of Legends) staring menacingly into the camera. The word "JINX" is plastered behind her as a halo revolves above her. Jinx's hair looks absolutely crisp, and the pink letters steal the show, thanks to the superior HDR you'll see on an OLED display.
Night Ride by VISUALDON - 4K Ultra HD
One of Wallpaper Engine's best creators strikes again
Night Ride by VISUALDON - 4K Ultra HD tops the list due to the sheer amount of stuff that's happening in this 636MB wallpaper. First, a massive violet sun towers over the scene, bathing everything in an impeccable glow. Next, the artwork on the buildings is more detailed than it has any right to be — you can see countless windows and highlights making full use of your OLED display's capabilities. Lastly, the biker in the foreground alternates between approaching and moving away from you, imbuing a narrative into the scene. With close to 184,000 subscribers, this VISUALDON wallpaper is one of their very best.
You'll never get tired of Wallpaper Engine
These are 10 of the best Wallpaper Engine wallpapers that shine on OLED monitors. That said, you'll probably keep discovering new favorites years after using Wallpaper Engine for the first time. The rich repository, fueled by an active community, is home to countless gems that you'll find joy in discovering. Even if you don't own an OLED display yet, these wallpapers will take your desktop game to the next level.
Monitors
OLED
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
Thanks to Home Assistant, my vacuum cleaner is now integrated with my smart home
5 days ago
MQTT is the secret to a calm and organized smart home
5 days ago
I tried this open-source platform to self-host LLMs, and it’s faster than I expected
4 days ago
6 free file managers on Linux that are better than anything on Windows
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
26 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I replaced all my bash scripts with Python, and here’s what happened
The first Xbox-branded handhelds are finally up for pre-order, and the price is even higher than expected
4 things the game doesn't tell you in Hollow Knight: Silksong
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.