I've Spent Days Testing the Pixel 10 Pro XL and It's Quite the Android Phone - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test phones
TechMobile Phones
I've Spent Days Testing the Pixel 10 Pro XL and It's Quite the Android Phone
From gaming and the camera to new AI skills and the battery, I've been putting Google's new flagship phone through its paces.
Andrew Lanxon Editor at Large; Lead Photographer, Europe When he's not testing the latest phones or phone cameras, Andrew can normally be found with his own camera in hand or behind his drums or eating his stash of home-cooked food -- sometimes all at once. Expertise Smartphones, photography, iOS, Android, gaming, outdoor pursuits. Credentials Shortlisted for British Photography Awards 2022, Commended in Landscape Photographer of the Year 2022
See full bio
Andrew Lanxon
Aug. 27, 2025
10:00 a.m. PT 9 min read
Andrew Lanxon/CNET
I'd already spent a lot of time with the Pixel 10 Pro XL in Paris -- including extensively testing its camera -- so there was a lot I already liked about it. I'm keen on the design, the display is vibrant and bright enough to use under the midday Paris sunshine and the camera is capable of taking some really great-looking images.
Now that I have Google's new flagship phone in my hand I've been able to dive deeper, playing games, using the new AI tools and generally finding out what this phone is really like to live with. It's too early still for a full, rated review, so here I wanted to give some of my initial thoughts and impressions from the time I've spent with it.
Watch this: The Google Pixel 10 Pro XL's Camera Is So Smart, It Almost Took the Photos for Me
07:57
You can still read my full hands-on article, as well as watch my video above where I put the camera to the test. And if you're interested in the cheaper base Pixel 10, you can read about that here.
So, let's dive in.
Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source on Chrome.See the Pixel 10 Pro XL at Best Buy Capable Tensor G5 processor
I couldn't really use the phone beyond the camera in my first round of testing so I was excited to finally be able to boot it up and see how it handles. It packs Google's latest Tensor G5 processor, along with 16GB of RAM. The company has made various boasts about this chip's performance increases over its predecessors.
Andrew Lanxon/CNETI'm yet to run our usual suite of benchmark tools on the phone -- Google seems to block them in the Play Store during testing periods, which is unhelpful -- so my observations are more anecdotal. But it certainly seems like a nippy piece of kit. Swiping around the Android 16 interface is swift and lag-free. Apps, including the camera, open quickly.
It handles gaming well, with Genshin Impact and PUBG playing smoothly at high graphics settings. It also feels faster when generating AI images in Pixel Studio (more on that later). The one area I noticed any kind of slowdown is when shooting 50-megapixel images. When you first open the camera you can take up to three images in quick succession, but then the shutter button becomes inactive for a few seconds while it saves those shots.
The Pixel 10 Pro XL Goes to Paris: Out of Hundreds of Photos, These Are My Favs
+33 More
See all photos
Burst-firing high resolution shots is arguably a niche use case but it does hint that the processor will still struggle with some demanding tasks. Google's Tensor chips have never been about straight-line speed though and I don't expect it to be a rival for Qualcomm's top-end Snapdragon 8 Elite on benchmark tools. What it does is provide a solid overall experience with enough power for everyday tasks, while also being tailored more toward on-device AI processing. Speaking of which…
Andrew Lanxon/CNET
Upgraded AI tools
The Pixel 10 range is packed with various new AI tools, while existing ones -- like Gemini Advanced -- are more capable than ever. The generative AI image creator, Pixel Studio, launched last year on the Pixel 9 range. While it was fun, its images were often a bit rough. The improvement this year is vast, with higher quality images and an overall better understanding of prompts.
Last year, Pixel Studio could only manage this garbage when I asked it to write "Wish you were here" above a giraffe on a beach. Andrew Lanxon via Pixel Studio/CNET
One year later, the tools are significantly improved. Andrew Lanxon via Pixel Studio/CNETIt'll also generate pictures of people as well as include accurate text within the image, two things it certainly couldn't do before. There are also various new styles to choose from, including a claymation look, a stained glass style and a traditional Japanese ukiyo-e style that I absolutely love. It's great fun playing around with the tool, and while for many it might just be a fun novelty, it could also be a genuinely useful tool to help play with ideas for creative projects.
"A noir owl plays pool while a tiger watches and laughs." Nailed it. Andrew Lanxon via Pixel Studio/CNET
Pixel Studio images are clearer and can now include people. It's a huge upgrade from last year. Andrew Lanxon via Pixel Studio/CNETA few things I did notice about it though: A prompt that simply includes the word "phone" will almost always result in an iPhone. While it can create a near photorealistic rendering of an iPhone, ask the Pixel to create a Pixel phone and it'll invariably get it wrong. Turns out, Google's AI is extremely iPhone-focused. I also found it weirdly obsessed with Hasselblad, putting the logo on people's clothes and putting a Hasselblad camera into scenes without any prompting from me.
Pixel Studio has no trouble rendering an iPhone... Andrew Lanxon via Pixel Studio/CNET
...but it really struggled to understand what a Google Pixel phone is. Andrew Lanxon via Pixel Studio/CNETMore troubling though is the AI's lack of representation of people of color. Using generic terms like "man" or "woman" almost always resulted in images of white people, with none of the images created in my whole testing time showing darker skin tones. This isn't unique to Google's phones; AI's racial bias has been notable for many years now, with most chatbots displaying some kind of bias whether overt or otherwise.
CNET contacted Google for comment on this issue and it responded: "Pixel Studio employs rigorous design, testing, monitoring and safeguards that follow Google-wide policies. Pixel Studio uses the latest state-of-the-art models from Gemini and follows the same safety guidelines that are used by Gemini to mitigate unintended or harmful outcomes and avoid unfair bias. Google is committed to continually evolve our products in the space of responsible AI to ensure fair representation for all."
"Four men drink Guinness."  Andrew Lanxon via Pixel Studio/CNETThe AI extends deeper into the phone, with tools like Magic Cue designed to automatically surface relevant information from you during a conversation, so you don't have to go searching for it yourself. It'll scrape information from Gmail, the Google Messages app, Google Calendar, Contacts and Keep Notes, and you'll need to provide permission for Magic Cue to access your information.
I'm yet to fully use the tool, but my colleagues have and found it works sometimes -- although it seems inconsistent in when it surfaces information. Why have I not used it much? Because it works only with certain Google apps, and I've rarely used them before now. I'm mostly an iPhone user, and my social world exists largely in messaging apps like WhatsApp or Instagram messaging. I never even use Apple's own iMessage. As a result, setting up the Pixel from scratch means not having any existing data for it to pull from, and if like me, you don't really live in Google's app ecosystem, then Magic Cue will be of limited use.
You'll find other existing AI tools on board like Gemini Live and Circle to Search, along with a new voice recording tool that creates AI soundtracks to play over the top of your recordings. Honestly, I don't see what the point is. I've never felt I needed a "rainy-day blues" vibe playing over a voice memo about an article idea and I don't think it's going to transform the way I work.
I can't honestly say I have much need for an AI-created soundtrack over my voice notes. Andrew Lanxon/CNETGemini Live now allows you to share your screen to be able to ask questions about what you're looking at. Sometimes it works, other times it's weirdly inaccurate. While my app drawer was open I asked it, "Which is the PUBG Mobile app?" and Gemini acknowledged that it could see it, but then inaccurately told me its location and described it as "a desert scene with a vehicle," when it's actually a person in a helmet against a bright blue sky. A total failure.
I asked it about several apps (including the calculator) and it got some element wrong every time -- either the app icon's location within the screen or the description of the icon itself. However, when I opened the camera, showed it a SanDisk SSD and asked, "What is this?" it gave me a perfect answer. I would continue to fact-check your AI results.
Pixel 10 Pro XL cameras tested in Edinburgh
I took hundreds of photos with the Pixel 10 Pro XL in Paris, and I was really pleased with how it captured the exposure and colors on the bright sunny day. In a slightly more overcast Edinburgh, however, I'm not quite as thrilled with the results. I had a few friends come to visit and while doing some filming on the Royal Mile we also decided to hit a few pubs throughout the afternoon and I took the phone along for the ride.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETThis shot of this chap having a little snooze is solid, with great details and exposure.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETThis ultrawide shot of my friend filming has a decent exposure, but the details when you zoom in are a little mushy.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETIt's the same here, with a noticeable amount of oversharpening giving the scene a crunchy look, which I don't love.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETThis portrait mode shot of my friend is spot on though, with a lovely natural bokeh.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETAnd this image of a dog is pin-sharp.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETAt 5x zoom, this shot of this man outside a pub looks great.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETBut this guy carrying an Eevee plushie definitely looks overprocessed, with oversharpened details that I'm not keen on.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETTaken with the regular camera, this scene is well exposed, with the statue on top of the far building being barely noticeable.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETZooming in to 10x brings the statue much more into view, with reasonably sharp details.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETAt 30x the phone uses AI to upscale the image, although I don't think it's done a good job here -- it may even have missed focus as it looks really quite blurry.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETBut weirdly at 100x it looks far better, with even texture details visible on the statue. It's a remarkable image, and I did not expect to get a clean shot like this at 100x zoom.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETIn this very low light indoor bar, the phone did a solid job of our cheers with some old-school Hooch. Details are a little mushy, but that's to be expected.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETTaken with the main camera using the Pixel's Night Sight, this night time scene is bright and detailed with little image noise throughout.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETSwitching to the ultrawide camera there's again a decent amount of detail throughout.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETThis shot is captured well enough, but I noticed there was again quite a lot of crunchy-looking details from the over-zealous image processing.
Enlarge Image
Andrew Lanxon/CNETSo I also shot this photo in raw and did my own editing in Adobe Lightroom. Apart from adjusting the exposure and colors, I was also less heavy-handed when it came to sharpening and clarity, and I think it's a nicer-looking shot as a result.
Reasonable battery life
I've put the phone through one round of our demanding video streaming battery drain test. After the first hour it had dropped from full to 94%, to 86% by the second hour and to 76% after three hours of streaming. I'd call that result OK at best. It's in line with the OnePlus 13 and Galaxy Z Flip 7 FE, while phones like the Galaxy S25 Plus and iPhone 16 Pro both had well over 80% remaining after the third hour.
It's a very demanding test, though, and in everyday use I've found it decent enough. It certainly holds its charge well when not in use, and after 45 minutes of playing Genshin Impact it only dropped by around 7%. Battery life is absolutely an area I want to investigate further before I'm ready to slap on a score.
Andrew Lanxon/CNET
Pixel 10 Pro XL: Is it still a good phone to buy?
When I first wrote about the Pixel 10 Pro and Pro XL I said they were "shaping up to be superb flagship Android phones." I stand by that. They look great, the cameras can certainly take some awesome images and the new AI tools are interesting and only going to get better over time.
You shouldn't buy this phone if you already own a Pixel 9 Pro or maybe even an 8 Pro. The hardware upgrades are arguably quite minimal and some of the AI prowess of the 10 Pro series will be shared with earlier Pixel models with updates.
You also shouldn't look towards this phone if you're a power gamer, wanting the ultimate handheld console-like experience. While I haven't benchmarked the processor, its overall performance feels good, but not overwhelmingly potent. It certainly can handle games and if you're more of a casual gamer wanting to bash a few pixels around on your daily commute, it'll be more than sufficient.
I'm looking forward to spending more time with the phone over the coming days and weeks. Some tools -- like Magic Cue -- will only reveal their true usefulness over time, so this is a phone I'm keen to really get to know. But it's certainly starting out well.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.