Marvel and DC crossover Deadpool/Batman #1 gives an unlikely hero a Green Lantern ring
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
I'm all in on the adventures of Rocket and Green Arrow
Marvel and DC just made Rocket Raccoon a Green Lantern and I need more
By
Austin Manchester
Published 1 day ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
The 20 best horror movies on Amazon Prime Video
4 days ago
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
2 days ago
15 years later, Halo fans are still debating Halo: Reach
3 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Marvel Studios
On Sept. 17, Marvel and DC crossed over for the first time in decades with Deadpool/Batman #1. While the main event showcased the Merc with a Mouth and the Dark Knight teaming up against the Joker, the backup stories are the real fun. Krypto and Jeff the Land Shark play ice cap volleyball, Captain America and Wonder Woman hook up, and Green Arrow and Daredevil fight ninjas on rooftops (classic). But the backup story these publishers need to turn into a full miniseries is Al Ewing and Dike Ruan's "Rocket Has a Green Lantern Ring Now." It's a short two-pager that finds DC's Guardians of the Universe and Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy agreeing to a cultural exchange program. Hal Jordan tags along with the Guardians of the Galaxy, but not before lending Rocket his Green Lantern ring. "Brightest day, blackest night. Yada yada. Green flame on!" he exclaims before adorning a Green Lantern costume straight from Guy Gardner's closet. I mean, just look at this guy:
Image: Dike Ruan, Marvel Comics
Fantastic. Rocket being Rocket, though, means he doesn't use his newfound Green Lantern powers to take on cosmic threats or help the Guardians patrol the galaxy. He bets his ring at a casino, which he then robs. Green Arrow makes a surprise appearance to pull one out from under the casino's mob owners with very Robin Hood-esque intentions (which Rocket didn't agree to). It's a low-stakes, surprising team-up that takes full advantage of the two publishers crossing over by putting their characters in unexpected positions. While the main Deadpool and Batman story from Zeb Wells and Greg Capullo doesn't allow for any surprises, "Rocket Has a Green Lantern Ring Now" lets Ewing have some fun with these cosmic characters. His run on Guardians of the Galaxy is one of the title's best in recent years, and now I'm dying for him to have a full miniseries showcasing Rocket's (mis)adventures as a Green Lantern. It would certainly be more creative than whatever this Wolverine/Lobo abomination is. Deadpool/Batman #1 is in comic shops now from Marvel. DC's crossover book Batman/Deadpool #1 arrives Nov. 19, but good luck choosing which variant cover to snag.
Comics
Entertainment
Marvel
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
What really scares the Gen Z star of 28 Years Later?
5 days ago
Him star Julia Fox reveals her character's secret backstory
3 days ago
50 years ago, Al Pacino made a perfect crime thriller that was ahead of its time
5 days ago
3 Game Pass games we're playing this weekend (Sept. 19-21)
More from our brands
The Best Marvel Comics Everyone Should Read
The Best DC Comics Everyone Should Read
Best Superhero Shows To Watch On Max
Green ‘Lanterns’ Light! Everything We Know About DC’s Cosmic Detective Show
From Marvel to DC: A Key MCU Hero Is Now DC's Green Lantern
Deadpool/Batman Celebrates the Joys of DC and Marvel Crossing Over With Each Other
5 Years Later,
DC & Marvel Tease the Pair's Biggest Crossover Event Ever
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
Hades 2 overcomplicates a perfect formula
Marvel Zombies wastes the MCU's most promising superhero team
An abandoned Alien plot twist inspired Alien: Earth's scariest creation
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.