Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
Credit: Razer
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 4 days ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Source: Razer
Razer BlackWidow V3 Mini HyperSpeed
$64
$91
Save $27
The new BlackWidow V3 Mini HyperSpeed is a 65% wireless keyboard that delivers an impressive typing experience. Use it for everyday work, or put it to the test during a frantic gaming session. It can handle it all, and costs just $64 right now.
$64 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
If you're looking to upgrade your current keyboard, the Razer BlackWidow V3 Mini HyperSpeed is going to be one to consider. Not only are you getting something that looks good, but it also delivers an impressive typing experience as well. It's compact, feature-packed, and now down to its lowest price at just $64. It's a great keyboard, especially at its current price, delivering impressive value on a budget.
You can't go wrong with this one
You probably don't really think about it much, but a new keyboard can make a world of difference, especially if you're someone that's on their computer all day. And while there are plenty of different options, we think this one from Razer is a solid choice, especially at its current price.
You get a compact 65% form factor, but plenty of room for comfortable typing. The keyboard can be used wired or wireless, with the latter utilizing Bluetooth and can also connect using Razer's HyperSpeed technology. HyperSpeed is going to be great when you need the most responsive experience, which is an absolute must for gaming.
This particular model comes with Razer's green mechanical switches, which provide a tactile typing experience. You also get doubleshot ABS keycaps, but can always upgrade to something different if you'd like. In addition, you get customizable RGB, along with up to 200 hours of battery life. Razer also backs its product with a two-year warranty, just in case you need support.
Overall, not a bad way to spend $64 if you're looking for some new accessories for your PC. Razer has been making some pretty high-quality products for some time, and this keyboard is no exception. Grab it now for its lowest price and save big.
Keyboards & Mice
Razer
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
4 days ago
9front is a weird Unix-based operating system with an even stranger history
5 days ago
This is the zero-config dashboard I wish I’d installed on day one
6 days ago
Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
4 days ago
I still use Obsidian, but I wish they'd fix its plugin dependency
Today's best deals
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
10 hours ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
13 hours ago
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
You don’t need to spend too much money to start your home lab - here’s how you can do so for cheap
4 lightweight Linux tools I could never go without
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.