How to share HttpOnly cookie between Laravel API (localhost:8000) and Next.js (localhost:3000)? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to share HttpOnly cookie between Laravel API (localhost:8000) and Next.js (localhost:3000)?
Ask Question
Asked
yesterday
Modified
yesterday
Viewed
35 times
0
I’m building an app where my backend is a Laravel API (running on http://localhost:8000) and my frontend is a Next.js 15 app (running on http://localhost:3000).
I want to store the Sanctum token inside an HttpOnly cookie (for XSS/CSRF protection) so when the user logs in via the Laravel API, the cookie will automatically included in requests from both:
Next.js Server Components
Next.js Client Components
What I tried
On the Laravel side, I issued the token and attached it to a cookie:
$cookie = cookie('auth_token', $token, 60, '/', null, true, true, false, 'lax');
return response()->json([
'status' => 'success',
'token'
=> $token,
'user'
=> $user->only('id', 'name', 'email', 'phone'),
])->cookie($cookie);
On the Next.js side, I tried two approaches:
1. Rely on Laravel’s cookie
The cookie is created correctly, but it isn’t accessible from my Next.js app since it’s set on a different origin (localhost:8000 vs localhost:3000).
2. Manually set a cookie in Next.js server action
cookieStore.set("auth_token", json.token, {
httpOnly: true,
secure: process.env.NODE_ENV === "production",
sameSite: "lax",
path: "/",
});
This works for server-side requests when I manually add the Bearer token.
But for client-side requests, I can’t access the HttpOnly cookie in JavaScript (by design).
Question
How can I properly share the HttpOnly authentication cookie between Laravel (localhost:8000) and Next.js (localhost:3000) so that:
The cookie is set once in Laravel after login
It is automatically sent with requests from both Next.js server and client components
Without exposing the token to JavaScript (still HttpOnly)
Do I need to configure a shared domain (e.g. .myapp.test) instead of localhost for this to work, or is there another recommended way?
laravelnext.jscookie-httponly
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked yesterday
Lana HannaLana Hanna
11344 silver badges1515 bronze badges
5
1
presumably you will not be running your production site in localhost so I'd recommend you setup your local using a virtual host configuration that best matches live. For example if your live Next.js app would be example.com and your live laravel app will be api.example.com then setup your local under dev.example.com and dev.api.example.com with a virtual host configuration (and modifying your hosts file if needed). This is not to say you can't set it up using localhost but whatever you do will probably break when you go to production
apokryfos
–
apokryfos
2025-09-14 19:57:46 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Is the issue I am facing a common one, or am I doing something unusual by using this method? I also tried changing my /etc/hosts as you described and updating the cookie’s domain to match the virtual host but i still have the same issue.
Lana Hanna
–
Lana Hanna
2025-09-14 20:31:12 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
1
I think typically with a setup like this it's not recommended to share cookies directly. Have a look at laravel sanctum either the token or SPA style authentication may match your use case
apokryfos
–
apokryfos
2025-09-14 22:08:37 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
isnt it the same as any other setup like laravel api to react/vue/any-framework/no-framework setup? Make sure that you include the jwt in the json response and mark as http only. Then in the front, submit with credentials
Mr. Kenneth
–
Mr. Kenneth
2025-09-16 01:13:10 +00:00
Commented
4 hours ago
maybe setup a middleware to only accept from certain urls like your frontend url
Mr. Kenneth
–
Mr. Kenneth
2025-09-16 01:15:08 +00:00
Commented
4 hours ago
Add a comment
|
Related questions
70
Laravel 5.6 - Passport JWT httponly cookie SPA authentication for self consuming API?
3
how to set cookie with httponly flag in vuejs and vuex that cookie cames from server(Laravel)
4
Laravel 8 sanctum api "CSRF token mismatch" 419 error with next.js app
Related questions
70
Laravel 5.6 - Passport JWT httponly cookie SPA authentication for self consuming API?
3
how to set cookie with httponly flag in vuejs and vuex that cookie cames from server(Laravel)
4
Laravel 8 sanctum api "CSRF token mismatch" 419 error with next.js app
2
Laravel Sanctum API httpOnly cookie 'has been rejected for invalid domain'
3
How to access httpOnly cookies in Next.js?
0
Nextjs: can't get httponly cookie inside getServerSideProps using Laravel
Load 3 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
laravelnext.jscookie-httponly
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Truth value of a sentence giving permission?
How to clear specific byte values inside a 64-bit value without looping
What is the probability of coming out ahead in the iterated alternating St. Petersburg gamble?
Can scriptPubKey be empty in Bitcoin transactions and how would such outputs be spent?
How to double chapter numbers and let hyperref do its work correctly
Find the first relabeling
Is electrolysis of alumina (Al2O3) without cryolite possible to produce pure Aluminum?
Why are my fluorescent light fixtures and LED replacements turning on intermittently?
Ephemeris Time/Second Tracking
Is there a deeper meaning behind the gesture of the statue here?
Propeller design in XROTOR
Be supposed to and its meanings
Do most people not have a stringent moral system?
Can old rim strips (without punctures) cause flat tubes?
Python implementation of core fundamentals to calculate math arithmetic
Explanation of Rebbe (R Yehuda HaNasi) making kiddish after his passing
Why does the do-while loop in C-like languages require the curly brackets `{` and `}`? Wouldn't the grammar be perfectly parsable without them?
Kaleidoscopic supernova
What could be the meaning of the word "far" in "One far fierce hour and sweet"?
What is the purpose of this opening in the airplane interior?
Why is the Bonferroni needed?
How to tell author that post hoc data manipulation is not okay
Does Reaper ability affect touch/self range cantrips?
Open pdf files in the background with fzf
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-php
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.15.33996