3 Longevity Habits From a 96-Year-Old Doctor Who Still Drives - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Health
A 96-year-old doctor retired only 4 years ago. He credits his longevity to career passion, a low-fat diet, and his cat.
By
Julia Pugachevsky
Dr. Ira Eliasoph retired from ophthalmology in 2021 at age 92.
Ira Eliasoph
2025-09-23T17:27:33Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Dr. Ira Eliasoph, 96, retired from working as an ophthalmologist at 92.
He played tennis into his 90s and still drives to see his friends.
He credits his longevity to career passion, a low-fat diet, and close connections.
When Dr. Ira Eliasoph retired from ophthalmology at 92, he still felt energized enough to do the work.
"When I quit, it was not because of any feebleness on my part; I could still do the surgery without having the shakes," Eliasoph, 96, told Business Insider. "The young residents were more nervous than I was."Since retiring from a 70-year medical career that involved a naval rescue and celebrity patients, Eliasoph focused on painting, driving to see his friends, and participating in the SuperAgers Family Study, which tracks longevity traits in people 95 and up.
Eliasoph said his father, Dr. Benjamin Eliasoph, a renowned physician who pioneered the design of the oxygen tent in 1921, was his hero. He also learned a lot about health from his father, who put Eliasoph on a low-fat diet when he was 6 years old."I've been careful with my diet all these years, and also not being a risk taker," Eliasoph said.He's taught his four children, five grandchildren, and two great-grandsons a few simple rules: To listen to their bodies and keep a handle on stress. "The only real emergency is if the house is on fire," he said. "But otherwise, pretty much everything can wait a few hours or another day."
It's led to a long, rich life. "I'm glad that my brain seems to be clear," Eliasoph said. "I've had a couple of difficulties with some surgeries, whatever, but I'm fine."Career passion and hobbies keep his mind sharp
Eliasoph in 1954, when he was a US Navy medical officer.
Ira Eliasoph
From a young age, Eliasoph had a penchant for discovering new things and challenging himself, a key part of longevity. "Curiosity and observation every day are essential," Eliasoph said.At summer sleepaway camp, he was eager to learn how to swim, ride a horse, row a boat, paddle a canoe, and shoot a rifle.
Following in his father's footsteps, Eliasoph entered the medical field, first studying general surgery before pursuing ophthalmology at NYU and Mount Sinai. "I chose a field that suited my talents and interests," he said, which kept him engaged and excited throughout the years.He looks back on his career with pride. In 1955, he participated in a risky, lifesaving mission as a US Navy medical officer. He also published peer-reviewed papers and developed new surgical instruments for ophthalmic surgery.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Since retiring a few years ago, Eliasoph has spent his time painting and drawing, hobbies he's had since childhood, and writing his memoir and a biography of his father.
He eats sweets in moderation and takes supplementsSticking to his father's low-fat diet, Eliasoph eats high-protein meals such as turkey dinners and corned beef hash, which include plenty of vegetables like green beans and sweet potatoes.He also limits his sugar consumption. To satisfy his sweet tooth, he usually has "two or three teaspoonsful" of ice cream or Woodford pudding, a classic blackberry dessert.He also takes supplements every morning. "Vitamin C, to me, is essential," he said, noting the "long history of scurvy." He also takes vitamin B12, which helps form new red blood cells and stave off memory loss, and folic acid, a synthetic form of vitamin B9 that promotes brain function, every day.
Independent but connected
Eliasoph with his cat, Bandit, whom he got in 2015.
Ira Eliasoph
Eliasoph has regular phone calls with his son and three daughters, who all live far away. His physically closest relative is his stepson, who lives a mile away. Several times a week, he said his stepson and wife come over with takeout food."I have been self-reliant and independent from early life," Eliasoph, who lives alone, said. However, he still credits strong family ties for his longevity.During the week, Eliasoph also socializes by driving 20 minutes to a beach club he used to go to with his late wife. He spends time with friends he used to play tennis with — a sport he had to give up after an injury two years ago.
Having a pet also keeps him happy. He got his cat, Bandit, after having major surgery in 2015. "Little Bandit has been great," Eliasoph said. "Don't need a psychiatrist."
Recommended video
Longevity
Diet
Family
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account